The members of FEMEN stripped their tops in a school in Üsküdar (a conservative district of İstanbul) and shouted slogans on the table covered with voting cards.
It turned out the polling station subjected to FEMEN protest was where PM Recep Tayyip Erdoğan would cast his vote in İstanbul.
"FEMEN activists stormed the voting papers where PM Erdoğan would cast his vote.”
Previously, FEMEN Turkey protested against the twitter ban in Turkey with a FEMEN activist sharing her bare-breast photo with "#DNS" and "#DirenTwitter” (ResistTwitter) and DNS numbers written on it. (EA/BD)
Photo credit: ‏@Vita__Nova , Twitter
As gunshots resounded in Hakkari province Bağlar neighborhood and other locations, one person, named Mustafa Er died and another was injured, according to news on Yüksekovahaber website. Mustafa Er's burial was held late last night (July 20) in Bağlar Neighborhood. 43-year-old Er was reported to be a father of 9.
Ambulances carried four people injured at different stages of the events to Van province.
Tribal elders call to equanimity
Ertoşi tribal elder Mehmet Adıyaman and Pinyanişi tribal elder Orhan Pirozbeyoğlu made a call for sensitivity about the conflict in Hakkari.
Governorate: Curfew until further notice
Hakkari Governor Yakup Canbolat told to a Yüksekova News reporter that they had imposed a curfew until further notice. Police vehicles announced the curfew in the neighborhoods.
Entering or exiting the town center has been forbidden. Lots of vehicles with citizens wanting to reach the town center are being held at Depin Police Checkpoint.
DBP provincial co-chair: Provocation
Democratic Regions Party (DBP) province co-chair M. Miraz Çallı made the declaration on the inter-tribal conflict:
"Whenever we start a convention or a project, some people fight with the police, and police tanks and tear gas follow. Whenever we are nearing an electoral process, people get the tribes fighting with each other. We regard the beginning of such an atmosphere of conflict on the day we hold our decisive Hakkari Town Parliament convention as a provocation," remarked Çallı, and added that they completed their conference despite all obstacles.
The Assyrian Women’s Center aims to strengthen the position and increase the visibility of the Assyrian woman, forced into introjection even more than Turkey’s other women due to linguistic and religious difference.
The Southeast (Turabdin) Assyrian Culture and Solidarity Association opened the center as part of the project backed by the European Union and Human Rights Program.
Moreover, again within the scope of the project is a magazine called "Neshe" (Women), to be published trimonthly in Assyrian and Turkish. The magazine is distributed with the Assyrian newspaper Sabro.
Gender education, Assyrian language courses geared at women and children, folklore, music, photography classes will be provided at the center. And what is more, instruction in Assyrian handicrafts facing extinction such as mat weaving and cloth printing is to be offered as well.
The aim is to ensure the continuity of the center by founding an Assyrian Women’s Association after the project is over.
“The Assyrian woman is twice as reserved”
Project Assistant Ninve Özgün specified that they want to lay bare the introverted Assyrian women’s problems and incorporate the women into social life.
"The introversion seen in some women of the region is experienced twice as strongly in Assyrian women as a result of difference in language, race and religion. They find it very hard to go out in public, which is why they cannot get jobs. And this leads to their total introversion. When we opened the center, we encountered much more interest than we expected. Women usually come to the center with their children.
Learning to write in one’s mother language
"For instance we all speak Assyrian, but in the language courses women learned to write in their own mother tongues. This is a great development. Also, too many words from other languages have entered Assyrian throughout the years. Here they learn new words in their mother tongue. That really drew their attention.
"Furthermore, weaving mats from wheat stems and printing are our cultural wealth. However, no one has been doing these for a long time; at the moment there are only one or two Assyrians left who know how to do these. Women in classes are now coming to remember these handicrafts."
A people unable to speak with its neighbors
Project Coordinator Tuma Çelik called to mind that a large portion of Assyrians living in the Mesopotamian region for 7,000 years were made to immigrate.
"Although the Lausanne treaty featured Assyrians, they were precluded from ‘minority’ status. They encountered difficulties in preserving their language and culture due to pressures throughout the past century.
"Assyrians who lived through the 1915 trauma have grown afraid even to share their thoughts with their neighbors. The women of such a community naturally became more reserved. That is why Assyrian women in Turkey are completely unorganized."
25,000 Assyrians remaining
Assyrians living in Turkey were forced to leave their homeland of centuries due to the 1915 genocide and the conflict between the Kurdish Workers’ Party (PKK) and Turkish Armed Forces in the 1990’s.
The Directorate to Preserve Natural Properties, the related executive organ tied to the Ministry of Environment and Urban Planning has to register and announce the decision to preserve Alakır Valley as a 1st degree natural protection area for it to be executed.
The Supreme Court of Appeals had approved the decision that the Alakır Valley is a first-degree protected area.
Hydroelectric plants not permitted
There are eight hydroelectric power plant projects in Kumluca district, home to Antalya province’s Alakır Valley, four of which have been completed and four in the planning stage.
With the Supreme Court of Appeals’ verdict, the hydroelectric plants planned to be built in Alakır will not be realized, and the outcome of the completed four is yet undetermined.
The process of the struggle
The Alakır River Brotherhood had applied for the declaration of Alakır Valley as a 1st degree natural protection area, but Antalya Culture and Nature Properties Protection Board had rejected the application.
Prosecutors filed a case in 2010 in Antalya 3rd Administrative Court upon the rejection.
This case concluded in March 2012 with the judgment that the entire basin from where Alakır is born to its mouth is a first-degree natural protection area.
Nevertheless, Antalya Culture and Nature Properties Protection Board and hydroelectric plant companies objected to the verdict.
The result of this objection crystallized in June 2014. The Supreme Court of Appeals rejected the objection and approved the court decision. (YY/PU)
* Click here to read the article in Turkish.
11:32 am Anadolu Agency (AA) have announced Istanbul Chief Public Prosecution’s statement that 15 people have been detained and 39 have arrest warrants. AA named the operation, "The operation on the ‘parallel structure’ within security forces". "We have completed the examination and research on 251 people claimed to have founded a so-called Tawhid-Salam organization and halted the prosecution of all 251 people,” the Chief Public Prosecution declared.
11:00 am Police officers in provinces such as Diyarbakır, İzmir, Van, Ankara, and Bitlis have been detained as part of the operation.
10:00 am today (July 22): The number of detentions reached 87.
Istanbul Fight against Terror Branch is running the Istanbul-centered operation on 200 addresses in 22 provinces and has so far detained around 52 suspects.
40 people were detained in the first operation that started last night at 1:50 am.
Authorities announced detainees are charged with founding organizations to commit crime, illegal wiretapping, and forgery.
Among those detained are former Fight against Terror Branch Head Yurt Atayün and the same period’s Fight against Terror Branch Head Ömer Köse.
The Organized Crime Branch’s second operation yielded 12 detainees. Searches in many police officers’ homes are ongoing.
This operation encompasses the Intelligence Branch officials of the time on the charge of over 200 illegal wiretaps between the years 2008-2012.
Then Istanbul Intelligence Branch Head Ali Fuat Yılmazer and many intelligence officials’ houses are also undergoing search.
Suspects are charged with offenses such as forging official documents, jobbery, obstructing and mangling the information system, destruction and alteration of evidence, obtaining information on government security, violation of the confidentiality of communication. (NV/PU)
* bianet compiled this news item from newspapers’ websites.
A conflict broke out last night in Ceylanpınar district’s Altıntepe Village between an armed group attempting to cross the border and the soldiers that gave a warning to stop, according to the news item on Hürriyet newspaper’s website. The armed group returned to Syria after the conflict.
Soldiers Adem Dövüşken, Yiğit Şahan and Berat Sağırkaya were injured. Adem Dövüşken passed away in Ceylanpınar Government Hospital where he was taken, and Berat Sarıkaya in Gaziantep University Şahinbey Research and Practice Hospital where he was taken by helicopter.
Yiğit Şahan’s treatment is ongoing in Şanlıurfa Harran University Research and Practice Hospital.
Governor’s remarks
"One of our soldiers was martyred and another hospitalized injured after a group opened fire on our security forces in Ceylanpınar district," wrote the governorate in their declaration last night. Another soldier lost his life after the statement.
"Our border units in Altıntepe Village, around 10-15 kilometers from Ceylanpınar district realized that armed constituents on the Syrian side were trying to cross the border in Rasul Ayn around 9:30 pm. An armed conflict broke out as a result," spoke Urfa Governor İzzettin Küçük to press members after exiting the hospital.
"We know there were many casualties following the armed conflict,” Küçük said about those attempting to cross the border and added:
"We know there were armed constituents. We are trying to determine why they were trying to cross the border. Our border commander is here as well; they are investigating on site. The incident is yet recent and hot. Needless to say, authorities are examining and evaluating the armed groups’ aims and reasons in crossing the border." (BK/PU)
* Photograph: Rauf Maltaş / Urfa province / Anadolu Agency (AA)
Prison administration found the letter “objectionable” in its July 10 decision.
The letter was to be sent to 15 press institutions including bianet, but could not be delivered to its addressees.
Zafer Hakur is behind bars for participating in the demonstration in Istanbul’s Gülsuyu neighborhood where Hasan Ferit Gedik was killed. “I suppose we were arrested because we didn’t die,” Hakur says.
Those charged with shooting Gedik will stand trial on August 14 for the first time. Hakur and others detained in Gülsuyu will have their own trial on August 7 in Istanbul’s Kartal district’s Anadolu Courtroom, 7th High Criminal Court.
The S-word
Hakur in his fax that made it to bianet, recounted he wrote a letter to explain their case and invite journalists to the hearing, but that the letter had been found “objectionable” and not been sent mailed. The following are taken from his fax:
“Last September our friend Hasan Ferit Gedik died in the drug gangs’ attack against neighborhood dwellers, and a few days later, police carried out a dawn operation and detained those who survived the attack. 18 people were arrested.”
“We will face trial for the first time on August 7. This is why I had penned a letter to you both explaining out suit, and inviting you to our hearing, and gave it in to be mailed. However, prison administration found objectionable the 15 or so letters that I wrote with my friends on trial for the same case.”
“The justification for finding these objectionable was stated in the administrative decision dated July 10, 2014 as follows: ‘As the letter, upon examination, contains phrases aimed at solidarity and communication about the case for which the arrestees stand trial...’”
Hakur ends his fax saying:
“Or do people not have the right to communicate about their cases?”
Timeline of events
Hasan Ferit Gedik was shot and killed in İstanbul Maltepe district’s Gülsuyu neighborhood on September 29, 2013. Subsequently, an operation was staged on the neighborhood and 18 people were arrested for “participating in May 1st demonstrations”, and “participating in anti-drug demonstrations.”
14 out of the 22 suspect police officers interrogated in the prosecution office were sent to court with an arrest warrant. 4 of the 14 suspects were released in legal control and 2 in the courthouse.
Ercan Palaz, Şeref Bolat, İsmail Torlak, Fatih Kırcı, Ramazan Altınışık, Selahattin Ergin, Mehmet Dilaver and Mesut Yılmaz were arrested according to information on news sites. The names of the released police are Polat Kongur, Kadri Cemal Yiğit, İlhan Polat, Ali Kavlak, Hasan Emecan and Turgay Yıldırım.
The suspect police officers attacked their colleagues come to take them to prison, according to news on Hürriyet and Radikal. Relatives of the officers met them with applause after the court declared its verdict and the officers left the courtroom. Some relatives were seen to react to the verdict. One police officer confronted his colleagues saying, “Am I an illegal organization member?”
82 taken to prosecution office
The 82 people detained in the operations organized by Istanbul Police Headquarters Anti-Terror Branch and Fight against Organized Crime Branch teams were brought today to Çağlayan Courthouse.
The suspects brought today to prosecution interrogation included Ömer Köse (Former Anti-Terror Branch Head), and Ali Fuat Yılmazer (Former Intelligence Branch Head).
How did it start?
The investigation that came on the agenda July 22 towards the morning hours started in the following way, according to Hürriyet newspaper’s news item:
Civil inspectors found in their examination at İstanbul Intelligence Branch that 250 people including politicians, businesspeople, artists and journalists illegally wiretapped in the Ergenekon, Organized Crime Association, Tawhid-Salam Organization, PKK and drug suits between 2008-2012.
Inspectors found that the wiretaps had been done with aliases over İMEİ numbers between years 2008-2010, and with real names between 2010-2012.
Another infraction was discovered in the wiretapping decision during the examination: The police had presented printed, ambiguous expressions as justifications for the decisions. The wiretapping decisions requested without concrete evidence had apparently been obtained with the help of certain courts’ judges.
102 out of the 115 security officials about whom Istanbul Chief Public Prosecution had issued a warrant and detention ruling in the scope of the "espionage" and "illegal wiretapping" investigations. (BK/PU)
* Photograph: Elif Öztürk / İstanbul / Anadolu Agency (AA)
Şahin said that they would cut the live broadcast should accusations targeting TRT continue, according to Cumhuriyet Newspaper’s news item, and added:
“All segments of society closely follow the presidential race and form their decisions based on correct information.
“Our nation is bearing witness to how those who see themselves as already beaten in the race resort to the cunning of creating excuses at our expense.
“Everybody must carry their own responsibility, and stop producing cheap justifications for their own failures using other people or institutions.
“Demirtaş’s speech in Aydın province is, to put it lightly, a misfortune. From now on, if these heavy accusations targeting TRT on live broadcast continue, we will cut the broadcast.
Demirtaş’s criminal complaint
Selahattin Demirtaş had filed a criminal complaint charging TRT with biased broadcasting, and requested prosecution to file a public action case against the authorities.
In response to the comment, women shared their laughing photos on Twitter.
"I am afraid the effect of televisions on everything from our daily life to our children’s growth is this much for this and that, but we are becoming a different society. Immorality, prostitution are becoming a quagmire. Our children, our youngsters are going in very bad directions in their sexual orientations. The age of puberty, of adolescence has shrunk greatly in Turkey. It has gone down to almost age 9-10 in girls and 11-12 in boys. As a result, there are agents, some in the virtual world, in the online world, some unfortunately on television, on newspapers’ gossip columns, and some in the educational space, principally in universities that encourage in particular these sexual orientations and that misuse such excitements, such enthusiasms of our youngsters.
Known as a wheat silo for its role in Turkey’s grain production, Konya Closed Basin is ecologically one of the 200 most important areas in the world.
65 percent of Konya has dried out
65 percent of the region’s wetlands have dried out in the past 50 years, according to the World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF) Turkey branch and ETİ Burçak Cookie Company’s research in Konya basin.
Konya closed basin is going through a severe water shortage due to its disappearing wetlands and unregulated water wells. However, despite that, investors want to build a thermal power plant is Karapınar district.
And now it is going through a hydrological drought due to decreasing rainfall throughout the country that further decreases its surface and ground water.
Former General Directorate of State Hydraulic Works (DSİ) Director Dursun Yıldız and Agricultural Engineers Chamber Konya Branch Head Celil Çalış reminded the public that groundwater decreases by 3 meters every year in already water-poor Konya basin, and called attention to the gravity of the hydrological drought in Konya.
Illegal wells must be inspected
Agricultural drought: Happens when the water demands of plants, pastures, meadows and other agricultural enterprises cannot be met.
Already 10 billion cubic meters of water deficit
Dursun Yıldız pointed out that water-poor Konya basin already needs water to be carried from other places.
"Konya is a water-poor region. The amount of water the closed basin needs is 15 billion cubic meters but usable water sources add up to only 5 billion cubic meters. So there’s already a water deficit of 10 billion cubic meters. Moreover, 35 percent of the rainfall to the basin happens during the plant cultivation period. Hydrological drought in such a region can do much more damage.
Thermal plant would burden Konya
Stating that there is a thermal power plant project underway for Konya despite the water shortage, Yıldız said, "Konya must primarily be used for agricultural production, and the pressure over the region must not be increased with a thermal plant that would increase water consumption.”
The plan in question entails building a thermal plant in Konya Karapınar that would produce 5,870 MW of electrical energy in 30 years. "The plant would use up the region’s groundwater, which is a gene pool in itself,” Turkey’s Foundation for Combating Soil Erosion (TEMA) had warned. (NV/PU)
* 65 percent of wetlands in Konya Basin have dried out in the past 50 years.
* 70 percent of the wells in the basin are illegal: 66,808 out of the 93,948 boreholes in the basin are illegal. An additional 1.5 times Istanbul’s annual water (equal to 36 times Lake Küçükçekmece) is drawn in the region every year; groundwater decreases every day.
* Temperatures are expected to increase 2.5 degrees Celsius in Konya Basin by 2015, and 4-6 degrees Celsius by the end of the 2030s. Twenty to thirty percent less rain is expected in Konya Basin by the end of the 2030s with the rise in temperatures and vaporization.
* A 65 percent drop in surface water and a 54 percent drop in groundwater is predicted for Konya Basin in the following 50 years. A 56 percent corresponding drop in the amount of total usable water in the basin is expected.
The fight in which the police intervened with tanks and tear gas turned into an armed conflict. According to Hürriyet Newspaper’s news item, 16-year-old İbrahim Öksüz, caught in the crossfire in the events where Molotov cocktails were also involved was a textile worker. Öksüz was reportedly caught in the crossfire when he left the textile workshop he works in to go home.
People’s Front broadcast organ Halkinsesitv.com ran the event with the headline, “İbrahim Öksüz dies, shot by gang members”. “14-year-old İbrahim Öksüz shot by gang members in Gazi Neighborhood lost his life around 11 pm after being hospitalized in Şişli Etfal Hospital,” stated the news item.
YDG-H and YDG-H Istanbul also made a declaration saying two had been injured and that the Peoples’ Democratic Party (HDP) was the actual target. (HK/PU)
Recalling Şahin’s statement that he would cut the live broadcast if he criticized him or his institution, Demirtaş said that even TRT’s microphone belongs to the public and that he would relieve Şahin of his duty should he be elected president.
Demirtaş: He panicked more than anyone
“He says he’s going to cut the broadcast if I criticize him or his institution again. He says I’m trying to cover my failure by blaming him since I’m sure to lose.
“This is the declaration of a bureaucrat. Even my rival from AKP did not dare say this, but the government’s official, the man who gets his salary out of your taxes and mine, the channel for which money is cut out of every cent we spend and even from our electricity bill makes me this threat.
“(Picking up the microphone) Their microphone is here too, I especially mention this. I hope he’s watching on live broadcast too. Even this microphone was bought with our money. Even this microphone is our property. Do I make myself clear, general director?
“TRT’s general director, you can neither have the capacity, nor the authority, nor the audacity to threaten me. And if you’re cutting the broadcast, go ahead. If you won’t air it, don’t.
“You’ve panicked more than anymore else. You’re right to do so. If I’m elected president, I will relieve you of your duty.”
Şahin had said, "The speech in Aydın was a misfortune"
İbrahim Şahin had said in his declaration earlier this week:
“Our nation is bearing witness to how those who see themselves as already beaten in the race resort to the cunning of creating excuses at our expense. Everybody must carry their own responsibility, and stop producing cheap justifications for their own failures using other people or institutions.
“Demirtaş’s speech in Aydın province is, to put it lightly, a misfortune. From now on, if these heavy accusations targeting TRT on live broadcast continue, we will cut the broadcast.”
What had Demirtaş said in Aydın?
Demirtaş had reminded listeners in his July 26 rally in Aydın province that TRT is a public institution and expressed that TRT General Director Şahin was committing a crime by violating the principle of neutrality.
“TRT is an institution that does public broadcasting, but it’s working like the Prime Minister’s own private channel. If TRT features the PM for 10 hours, it features us for 5 minutes. TRT employees wouldn’t do this great a job broadcasting even if he paid them out of his own pocket.
“TRT General Director is nowhere to be found, he needs to come out and give an explanation. Because he is legally committing a crime. We will bring this to account, there’s justice in religion and in books. Even if you are not brought to account in this world, you will certainly do so in the next one.”
Documentary with İhsanoğlu taken off the air
The Republican People’s Party (CHP) Vice Chairman Sezgin Tanrıkulu also inquired through a parliamentary question to Deputy Prime Minister and Government Spokesman Bülent Arınç why TRT had taken off the air the documentary titled “Zemzem - Zübeyde Su Yolu” [“Zamzam – Zübeyde Waterway”] featuring umbrella candidate Ekmeleddin İhsanoğlu.
“This piece came on air the first week of July on TRT, for the month of Ramadan. The documentary contains an interview with now presidential candidate Professor Ekmeleddin İhsanoğlu.
“TRT took the documentary titled ‘Holy Water Zamzam – Zübeyde Waterway’ off the air after airing the first episode.
“In this context; is it true that the documentary aired the first week of July has been taken off the air?
“If true, on what grounds?
“How can taking this program, scheduled for broadcast, an episode of which had already been aired, off the air under the justification of ‘broadcast traffic’ be explained to the public?
“Is the reason for taking the documentary off the air the fact that it features İhsanoğlu’s work before his presidential candidacy?
“If this claim is true, do you find this action in compliance with impartial broadcasting?
“If the documentary was taken off the air due to a heavy broadcasting traffic, as stated by TRT Documentary Channel Coordinator Adnan Süer, then are there other such documentaries the TRT took off the air due to heavy broadcasting traffic in the past five years? If yes, which ones?
“What are the punishments the Radio Television Supreme Council (RTÜK) has given to TRT in the past year?
“What is the total monetary contribution cut off from citizens within the last 10 years?
“How many warnings has RTÜK given to TRT for partial broadcasting since your party came to office?” (EKN/PU)
* Photograph: İsmihan Özgüven / Anadolu Agency (AA)
Mentioning the expert’s report in the parliamentary question he directed at National Education Minister Nabi Avcı, Tanrıkulu emphasized the report’s assertions that there were no teachers or warning signs near the students, and that cheap material had caused the power leak.
Tanrıkulu made the reminder that the National Education Ministry did not take on responsibility for the death, and that the National Education Directorate had uttered the defense that, “Yunus wouldn’t have contributed to his family even if he’d lived.”
How many children have died in schools?
Other questions to be answered in the parliamentary question are as follows:
* Is it true that cheap material and neglect caused 13-year-old Yunus Eser’s death? If it is, what ground was the defense based upon?
* Was the defense, “He wouldn’t have contributed to his family even if he’d lived,” of an institution the primary function of which is the education of citizens, made within your knowledge?
* What is the death toll in schools in the past 12 years?
* In how many lawsuits related to death in schools was your ministry found to be at fault? How much restitution have you had to pay?
Timeline of events
As Yunus Eser was playing ball with his friends in his boarding school’s yard on October 2, 2012, the ball escaped to the neighboring yard belonging to the dormitory of the Higher Education and Student Loan Accommodation Agency (YURTKUR).
While crossing over to the yard next door to retrieve his ball, Yunus Eser lost his life after receiving an electric shock from cables taken out of the electric pole with the aim of drawing electricity illegally.
The Eser Family filed complaints against the school principal and teachers on-call “for not looking out for their child”. (YY/PU)
Demirtaş: Fair TRT
Social media discussed Demirtaş’s remarks. Many users shared the video of his speech’s 30 second long TRT related part.
Censorship to Bahçeli
“Televisions are propagandizing candidate Recep Tayyip Erdoğan all day. 17 of these televisions are partisan, some of them are supporters and some gave up because of their fear. There are three different candidates and only one of them has this opportunity, how do you think you can find democracy and justice in Turkey with a situation like this?”
“Turkish Republic’s television is a corporate communication tool. They are standing on their feet with our taxes. The employees are receiving their payments as public servants, they don’t have an employer, and their employer is this public. But, they’re sparing 500 hours to propagandize for Recep Tayyip Erdoğan, they give 3 hours to one of the other candidates and 7 hours to the other one. In a situation like this, the public is not the employer anymore, the candidate Recep Tayyip Erdoğan is.”
TRT News ceased the broadcast after these remarks of Bahçeli. (EA/ENÜ)
İBB fired first
First, İstanbul Metropolitan Municipality’s Subcontractor Company fired Chamber of City Planners Board Member Süleyman Balyemez on March 12th, 2012.
The reason was city planners presenting their personal objection petitions on the construction plans prepared for Taksim Square at the press statement Taksim Solidarity organized in front of İBB.
During this protest security guards recorded Süleyman Balyemez’s identity information and one week after the protest they fired him from the job he had for 7 years.
Beylikdüzü fired during the Gezi Resistance
Secondly, right after the Gezi Resistance Beylikdüzü Municipality (belonged to AKP at that time) fired Chamber of City Planners Board Member Gürkan Akgün on July 18th, 2013.
Gürkan Akgün said he got fired because of the stand Chamber of City Planners and Taksim Solidarity had during the Gezi Resistance.
Both members won the reemployment lawsuit and the right to indemnity.
"It was a political decision"
“I was fired because of Taksim Solidarity constituent ŞPO’s stand during the Gezi Resistance. It was a very unfair and a political decision. The court confirmed that the reasons they presented to fire me weren’t judiciary. To be clear, we were expecting this decision.”
For the 2014 studies, ILAD Communication Research of the Year Award was granted to Prof. Dr. Mutlu Binark and his colleagues from Hacettepe University, Faculty of Communication, and ILAD Press Honor Award was given to cartoonist Musa Kart from Cumhuriyet newspaper.
Following the award ceremony being Held in Boğaziçi University, the panel “Freedom of Expression in Turkey” was organized with the partnership of ILAD and Boğaziçi University, the Department of Political Science and International Relations.
In the panel in which Assistant Professor Selcan Kaynak were the moderator, Prof. Nermin Abadan Unat, Prof. Dr. Haluk Şahin, Musa Kart and Ceyda Karan gave a speech.
Tahaoğlu: Journalism in not a ‘Mannish’, rather a Feminized manner
The reason of the awarding;
* Due to having a journalist identity that seeks the truth, questions and searches without making a race, gender, language and ethnic discrimination,
* making news being the side of oppressed ones instead of a journalism being the side of power,
* being a sensitive journalist towards human rights’ abuse, granted with İLAD 2014 Müşerref Hekimoğlu Journalism Achievement Award.
bianet’s editor Tahaoğlu was received her award from Prof. Dr. Nermin Abadan. In her acknowledgment remark, Tahaoğlu stated,
“I have begun to work as a journalist in bianet , an independent communication network based on human rights, and still I am working there as a women and LGBTI news’ editor. Therefore, since the date I started to work as a journalist, I have made an effort to announce the voices of the women and LBGTI, I told their stories.
“I find myself luck for two reason. First, I’m lucky because, my journey as a journalist coincided with a period in which the women became an actor, the women movement became more visible, strong, and more recognized, in other words in which the women made the others consider them. The news which previously considered as invaluable with the mainstream media and the society, now hit the headlines.
“The other point is also that I make right-oriented and women-oriented news. Namely, I don’t know how to perform journalism in a “Mannish” manner. On the way of my ‘feminized’ journalism, I thank you so much for considering me worthy of this award.
Who is Müşerref Hekimoğlu?
Born in Istanbul in 1921, Müşerref Hekimoğlu started to work as a journalist in Hayat Magazine in 1948. She worked as a columnist in Yeni Sabah, Akşam, Cumhuriyet newspapers. Then, she published Öncü newspaper collaboratively with his husband in Ankara. In 1971, she was one of the founders of ANKA News Agency. Afterwards, former MP Altan Öymen took over the board of directors. She was assigned as ANKA Honorary President in 2004.
Standing the first trial today (April 30) by the reason of criticizing the prosecutor for not investigating the claims concerning the corruption probe on April 17, Kabaş will be tried on Assize Court upon this decision.
By the reason of sharing message “Don’t forget the name of the prosecutor who ruled ‘lack of legal grounds for prosecution’ for 17 April corruption probe” from her twitter account concerning Istanbul Chief Public Prosecutor Salihoğlu, the case indictment charge Kabaş with “target the individuals who were in charge of anti-terrorism” as per Turkish Penal Code Law No. 6 Article 1. The journalist is charged with prison sentence.
Support to Kabaş
Visiting Çağlayan Courthouse in order to support Kabaş, Turkish Journalist Association Chairman Turgay Olcayto, Secretary-General Sibel Güneş, Turkish Journalists’ Union Secretary-General Mustafa Kuleli, Republician Party’s (CHP) deputy Sezgin Tanrıkulu and Mahmut Tanal, and besides Zaman newspaper columnist Mümtazer Türköne and Abdülhamit Bilici observed the trial.
Another case for “resisting police officers”
Going to the house of Kabaş in Çekmeköy, policemen seized Kabaş's mobile phone, computer, tablet computer, and detained her. Sedef Kabaş was freed after being questioned.
In HDP’s application of complaint, it was stated that the President Erdoğan wasn’t being objective:
“We hope that the Supreme Electoral Council will take precautions in order to hold the election in a proper and honest way and will warn the presidency to follow the rules and we are waiting to be informed about.”
“Since 10 March 2015, the date when election campaign began, President Erdoğan has held meetings in 7 different cities of Turkey and participated in ceremonies. These political meetings have been broadcasted on Turkish Radio and Television Corporation (TRT) while he has been making propaganda of Justice and Development Party (AKP) and he has wanted vote for AKP deputies. He has pointing firstly our party and then other opposition parties’ leaders as a target in an accusing, libelous and manipulative. Erdoğan’s been saying all the time ‘There lies only one party in my heart’ and so he’s pointing out his party ‘AKP’.” (AS/BD)
Click here to read this article in Turkish
Court gave a verdict that police violated Article 17 related to ill treatment and Article 34 related to the rights to assembly and demonstration of constitution.
Teachers Özcan Çetin, Orhan Bayram, Veli Irmak, Tunay Özaydın, Deniz Doğan and education inspector Ali Rıza Özer appealed to Constitutional Court with the claim that police stopped them from walking from İzmir to Ankara and their protesting educational system by using disproportionate force against them on March 27, 2012.
The verdict of Constitutional Court is as below:
Constitutional Court indicated that banning people from demonstrating was not acceptable in a pluralist and democratic society and stressed that it was expected from police to be more patient and tolerant against peaceful protestors. (AS/BD)
Nor Zartonk made a statement “We will not be silent against this racist censorship. The twitter account of Nor Zartonk should be immediately opened and the responsible ones from this should explain the reasoning. We expect all democrat community to support Nor Zartonk against this racist censorship!”
Reason could be a spam attack
IT lawyer, Serhat Koç, analyzed the situation and expressed the reason for closing of the account could be a spam attack and social media must take precautions against these kind of digital lynching attempts.
“Formerly only the state censored things. After that, twitter itself closed the accounts by court decision. Nowadays accounts are suspended with digital lynching attempts and spam attacks.
Koç: Social media must take precautions against digital lynching attempts
“It’s understood that this must be a spam attack presumably because Twitter didn’t make any request to Nor Zartonk for the content to be removed before. In this case, twitter account’s owner needs to prove that the account belongs to him/her and the account has been hacked.
“However, twitter users are forced to give away their identities and give up their anonym rights in this way. Social media must put an end these kind of digital lynching attempts and take due precautions for users to be able to take their accounts back.
Spam attacks
“It is a part of the law. Mother tongue based education is still forbidden. It was a method of torture in 1980 military coup. Speak Turkish, speak much.”
Selahattin Demirtaş answered the questions of Mustafa Karaalioğlu, Murat Yetkin and Mete Çubukçu on NTV show hosted by Oğuz Haksever and touched upon the subject ‘mother tongue’.
In reply to the sentences of Minister of Education, Nabi Avcı, Demirtaş said Turkish had been taught mandatorily.
“How did you learn Turkish?”
Murat Tekin asked Demirtaş’s opinion about the statement of Avcı.
“Minister of Education has made statement recently about language and education. He says “We fail at English language but we teach all Kurdish students Turkish well and fluently. Handle the subject from HDP deputies’ point of view. Kurdish children learn Turkish spontaneously while playing and joking around in playtime. This is how you learn a foreign language.
"Did you learn Turkish while you’re joking around?”
“Mother tongue based education is forbidden”
Demirtaş responded:
“Yes I remember that we were joking around when I was in primary school.
“Yes it’s true. We improve our Turkish while having fun and joking around.
“I think Avcı wasn’t playing enough when he was a kid. If he had done so, he could have spoken Turkish well like us.
“It would be nice if he had believed in what he was talking about. I don’t think he is a malevolent person but a minister of education shouldn’t talk like this.
“We had to learn Turkish as required by law. Mother tongue based education is still forbidden. It was a method of torture in 1980 military coup; speak Turkish, speak much.”
“This is the extermination of Kurdish language. They don’t accept it as a native language.”
“TRT Kurdî is also important and precious.
“Three days before, the President Erdoğan said “Mother tongue is crucial. You must not forget your own language or you will be assimilated. “ I find this hypocritical and unfair.
“I am embarrassed that I’m not able to talk my mother language well as Turkish. I am Zaza (an ethnic group in eastern Anatolia) but I wish I could speak Zaza language fluently as well as Turkish.
“Kurds have been fighting the state for almost a century for their mother tongue.
“It’s unfair to pay for learning your own language”
Upon Mustafa Karaalioğlu saying “People complain about private schools and their education systems.”
“Do you want to pay for learning Kurdish language? Is it fair to tell if you have money you can learn, otherwise you won’t?
“This should be a public service. They can’t ignore Kurdish language making up excuses.
“Society was used to it. It was a taboo to get a multilingual education but this concept has collapsed.
Erdoğan defended mother tongue when he was abroad.
The President Erdoğan was on a European tour recently. He said if someone lost his/her mother tongue, s/he would be assimilated.”
"We must be very sensitive about this subject because you “think” in your own language.
"Firstly you will teach your children Turkish and make him/her learn local language as well as Turkish. Our children shouldn’t feel alienated in this land.
Lawyer Senem Doğanoğlu from Human Rights Foundation of Turkey (TİHV) said the offence was a qualified torture and requested the file to be sent to High Criminal Court with a decision of non-jurisdiction. Court accepted the request.
Even though the murder occurred in Northern Cyprus the only defendant in the case, Recep Tekin, has been living in Diyarbakır. Thus, the case has been going on in Diyarbakır province. There are 18 petitors in the case as well as Aydın Kantar, Uğur Kantar’s father.
Trial in Northern Cyprus has been going on
Another battering case related to Uğur Kantar has been proceeding in Military Court of Cyprus Turkish Peace Forces Command. On June 3, next trial of the second case will take place.
Uğur Kantar was tortured to death while he was performing his military service in Northern Cyprus on July 25, 2011. Kantar was battered, left thirsty and hungry and he wasn’t allowed to go to lavatory. He was kept handcuffed under the sun and then taken to hospital when he fainted.
Kantar was taken to Gulhane Military Medical Academy (GATA) from Girne Military Hospital. After two and a half months later, he lost his life on Oct.12, 2011. (AS/BD)
Click here to read this article in Turkish
An industrial and agricultural city, Aydın, had 3 deputies from AKP, 3 from CHP and 1 from MHP in 2011 elections. Özlem Çerçioğlu from CHP won the election twice. Ekmeleddin İhsanoğlu had the highest number of vote in presidential elections.
It is thought the number of AKP deputies will decrease in the forthcoming election but everything is possible.
A woman with a headscarf we talked to said she voted for three different parties throughout her life and she was indecisive whom to vote for.
"All my life I have been a partisan of AKP. We came from Eastern Turkey. My husband and I once voted for Peace and Democracy party (BDP) and then we voted for CHP in case they would employ my husband. I was glad with CHP municipality but now my husband has some difficulties with municipality because they turned their backs on him. We don't know whom we will vote for. I just want politicians to be calmer. They always quarrel but needn't to do that. We have them pegged.
A shopkeeper woman said she voted for AKP in 2002 but kept on CHP.
"I made a mistake for voting for AKP once. My husband had influenced me. We divorced and now try to bring up our children with minimum wage. All political parties only care for themselves. They all had money to burn."
We met a group of men in a tea house. They were voters from both CHP and HDP. They complained about expensiveness, unemployment and credit card debts.
When asked how they were living in Aydın as a Kurd, they told "We don't have any problem at all. There isn't a Kurdish problem. They always say there is a problem. Look at us, we are friends and have conversations in here."
Another young man said "Selahattin Demirtaş is the best among politicans. He knows how to talk but I don't vote for him. If he were an independent candidate he would have been PM," when asked the rising popularity of Demirtaş.
Tea house owner interrupted "Half of people coming here like Demirtaş. However, just 10% of them will vote for him. Demirtaş is an idol."
We found out people who liked Demirtaş wouldn't vote for him in Aydın like İzmir and Manisa.
A tradesman showed us TV, Davutoğlu was talking.
"I've always voted for AKP and I will always. AKP made us felt our existence. Turkey has changed so much. Ottoman Empire was called "sick man" but we are proud of ourselves now. I don't believe in bribery and corruption operations. That's the thing of parallel structure. If I would have believed in, it would have affected my decision to vote for. Of course."
When asked about four ministers sent to Supreme Court for Dec.17, 2013 corruption and bribery operation, he said "I don't care about them. Parallel structure wants to overthrow the government."
A woman going to the PM's meeting told they were held in esteem due to AKP.
"We didn't benefit from previous governments. I'm 53. We waited in lines to be treated and couldn't buy medicine. Everything has changed now. Everything is all right.
A man interrupted and talked about shoeboxes stuffed with millions of money found during the bribery operation. Partisan of AKP, woman accused immediately CHP and claimed that CHP was robbing the banks.
Party
Total
Rate of votes (%)
Number of deputies
CHP
241.062
38,12
3
AKP
224.330
35,47
3
MHP
115.087
18,19
1
Independents
24.078
3,80
"Universities are everywhere. Our children have a future now. Tayyip Erdoğan is man of the people. We chose him. God bless them.
A Romani florist husband and wife said they voted for since 2002 but they would vote for Özcan Purçi, also a Romani, from CHP.
"I can't afford even a new fridge. Why should I vote for AKP? AKP promised new houses for Romani people. A few years passed but they haven't built anything yet.
"We will vote for Özcan Purçu from CHP. He is one of us. We are proud of him. Romani people won't be ashamed of themselves. He will lead the way up for us."
We couldn't meet a voter from MHP, nevertheless we had an opportunity to meet Ali Uzunırmak, a fourth time candidate from MHP. He had been Aydın deputy for three times. Uzunırmak stated that Aydın had a rate of 33% of unemployment and Aydın must be improved with its own abilities and possibilities along with integration planning.
Uzunırmak, indicated the encouragement for agricultural investments must increase. Aydın figs are famous and these fruits meet 65% of World's demand and 75-80% of them are Aydın's famous figs. (NV/BD)
* This tour has been made with the help of coordinatorship of P24.
HDP
Filiz Koçali
Muzaffer Yöndemli
Sevay Akkan Açıcı
Kibar Boza
Mahmut Nacar
Derviş Peker
Ayfer Demirel
AKP
Mehmet Sadık Atay
Abdurrahman Öz
Zeynep Armağan Uslu
Mustafa Savaş
Metin Yavuz
Ersin Esenlik
Cengiz Altıntaş
CHP
Bülent Tezcan
Metin Lütfi Baydar
Hüseyin Yıldız
Mehmet Fatih Atay
Tayfun Talipoğlu
Ferda Çağlar Erkut
Fulya Üstündağ
MHP
Ali Uzunırmak
Hayri Güleç
Hüseyin Karagöz
Deniz Depboylu
Fevzi Köse
Hilmi Bolatoğlu
Musa Savaş sent a message from his personal website:
“Turkey's Ministry of Transportation, Maritime Affairs and Communications called related public institutions and telephone operators the meeting on short notice.
“On May 14, 2015 at 10 o’clock Minister of Transportation, Maritime Affairs and Communications, the president of Council of Information Technologies and Communication, Tayfun Acarer and General Director of Communication, Mustafa Koç and telephone operators such as Erkan Akdemir on behalf of Türk Telekom (Turkish Telecommunications Company), Kaan Terzioğlu on behalf of Turkcell and Hasan Süel on behalf of Vodafone attended the meeting.
It was agreed to postpone 4G tender for three months in the meeting. Reason of postponement is expected to be shared with public opinion today.
What happened?
The President Tayyip Erdoğan said “There is 4G tender on our agenda. World is talking about 5G. We shouldn’t lose time with 4G. Let’s skip it and proceed on 5G. If we keep up with 4G, it will be a total waste,” on his speech on Apr 21.
Technology editor, Serhat Ayan, pointed out 4G and 5G were not kind of things like iPhone 4 and 5 and ıt was impossible to keep up with 5G before 2020 at the earliest.
Ayan mentioned it remained still unknown what kind of new features and standards would come with 5G. He reminded that Turkey had 3G technology in 2009 while the world already had used it in 2001. Serhat Ayan stressed that if we skipped 4G and would proceed on 5G, we would fall behind the times.
An explosion hit Peoples' Democratic Party's (HDP) headquarter in Seyhan district of Adana province. HDP's headquarter in Mersin province exploded simultaneously.
Seyhan District Co-Chair, Hüseyin Beyaz, former Province Co-Chair, Sabahattin Pişkinbaş from Socialist party of the Oppressed (ESP) and İbrahim Yakup were injured.
Explosion in Mersin
* Serhan Başçuhadar - Adana/AA
Mehmet Fırat, HDP's deputy candidate from Mersin told bianet he was informed there was an explosion in Mersin but he didn't get information about the casualties.
Another deputy candidate form Mersin, Mahmut Karabulut, said the explosion occurred in headquarters' balcony. "A flower pot was sent yesterday and our friends put it in the balcony. If it were inside, there would have been a chaos. There was a huge explosion, debris scattered everywhere."
Karabulut," We left the meeting earlier fortunately. It would have been worse."
People met in front of Ankara University Faculty of Politic Science and marched towards Sakarya Square with rainbow flags and transgender flags.
The crowd protested against homophobia, transphobia, fascism and degradation of ecosystem. Lesbian communist fighter Ivana Hoffman killed by ISIS and other homosexuals and transgender killed at the hand of hate speech were commemorated.
In the most joyful and crowded Anti-Homophobia Meeting held in Ankara, people shouted slogans like ““love and freedom, away from hatred”, “Gays will not shut up”, “The world would turn upside down, if trans people were free”, “women, life, freedom”.
Marchers came from far and wide
Peoples’ Democratic Party (HDP) sent a meeting vehicle for marchers. HDP’s deputy candidates from Ankara, Gülistan Aydoğdu and Gülsen Ülker, and deputy candidate from Eskişehir province, Barış Sulu were in the meeting.
Lawyer Hayriye Kara made a press statement on behalf of Kaos GL:”We protest against the heterosexism. The liberation of homosexuals will also free heterosexuals. We will walk hand in hand with love.” After the statement, thousands of people enjoyed the songs of singer Gülay, the Compiled Band and group Arin. (ÖA/ÇT/BD)
Click here to read this article in Turkish
Workers demanded rise in wages based on collective labor agreement (TİS). They requested none of the workers to be fired due to the strike and resignations to be accepted by trade unions.
TİS was contracted on Dec 14, 2014 between Metal Workers Trade Union of Turkey (Türk Metal) and Turkey’s Metal Industrialists Union (MESS) and the contract includes years between 2014 and 2017.
An anonymous worker told bianet:
Click here to read this article in Turkish
Spokesperson of GÖP and the president of Turkish Journalists Association (TGC), Turgay Olcayto, made a statement:
“Prosecution’s request is unconstitutional and against the law related to broadcast. This is the prohibition of freedom of information. Ruling party wants monotype newspapers and monotype journalists. The content of broadcast and broadcasting itself cannot be interfered.
Click here to read this article in Turkish
Demirtaş expressed Erdoğan was running election campaign by wasting public money and he said he would pay Erdoğan back after the general election.
Selahattin Demirtaş touched upon the explosions hit HDP headquarters in Adana and Mersin yesterday and stressed that Erdoğan didn’t send condolences after 24 hours:
“Erdoğan, you cannot build a presidential system. We won’t let you elected as the President. We won’t let you on behalf of all Turkey peoples, oppressed ones and beliefs you ignore and suppress.”
“You can’t have election meeting with public money and insult us”
"They are running election campaigns unlawfully. It is a crime against the constitution to run a campaign with the public money. So called “objective” President does in this way.
“Erdoğan is such an “objective” president that he can’t even mention the name of his party, AKP even if it is as clear as a day.
“On June 7, we will beat you Erdoğan. Roam around if you want.
“Show yourself Eroğan and people can see that you are a liar. You already have money to burn but you can’t have election meeting with public money and insult us.
“Even though you are president living in a palace, you don’t have a right to commit crime. You are unfair and you behave against the legislation.
“We will bring each coin you spent in the election meetings to account after June 7. When budget law functions, you will answer to us.
“Erdoğan didn’t send condolences”
“On May 18, our headquarters in Mersin and Adana were bombed. If our deputy candidates had been in the meeting, they would have been dead by now.
“This so called “objective” president didn’t send his condolences after 24 hr.
“However, I expected this. Erdoğan wished to create an image showing HDP was hand in hand with violence and conflict.
“Erdoğan, you roam around the country and say “I’m the President of 77 million people.” People are embarrassed and ashamed on behalf of you and your hypocrisy. How dare you to say that you are the President of all people in Turkey?
Mehmet Tursun, father of Baran Tursun, talked to bianet and evaluated the appointment.
Hüseyin Çapkın allegedly met Mehmet Akarca during the course of the trial
Mehmet Tursun pointed out Mehmet Akarca was appointed as a member of Supreme Court only after he sentenced police officer Oral Emre Atar to imprisonment and then promoted to the head of 14th Penal Chamber. Akarca has been appointed as the supreme court of appeals prosecutor now.
Oral Emre Atar is still a police officer
Mindset prefers the state rather than human beings
“Mehmet Akarca has a mindset prefers the state rather than human beings. He has been appointed as Supreme Court of Appeals Prosecutor by means of this mindset. We know for sure men like Mehmet Akarca will keep punishing killers nominally.”
Who is Mehmet Akarca?
A Renault worker talked to bianet:
"We put together a workers’ committee and have no leaders. We chose 30 spokespeople among us. Some of us have been negotiating with authorities. Firstly, employers requested us to choose spokespeople and then they blacklisted those people. Last night, I received a legal notice. We’ll give statement for being gang leaders today. I individually will make allegation against the authorities.“
What happened?
On May 14, 5.600 Renault workers stopped working requesting their demands. Workers from factories like TOFAŞ, Coşkunöz, MAKO and Ototrim stopped working soon after. The total number of workers on strike is fourteen thousand now.
Workers demanded rise in wages based on collective labor agreement (TİS). TİS was contracted Dec 14, 2014 between Metal Workers Trade Union of Turkey (Türk Metal) and Turkey’s Metal Industrialists Union (MESS) and the contract includes years between 2014 and 2017.
All political parties’ banners and flags covered the walls of the city but Peoples’ Democratic Party (HDP) seemed to have the greatest impact on people. People in the street talked kindly and ingeniously. We didn’t come across any hate speech.
People in Diyarbakır had their say:
A 50-year-old woman told she voted for Justice and Development Party (AKP) in the past but she regretted. She complained about favoritism of the government.
“Kurds are seen as aliens”
All women we talked to emphasized “peace”.
“Aren’t we all human beings? We don’t discriminate Turks from Kurds.”
“I’m very afraid of Erdoğan that he will be another ‘Kenan Evren”
Another old woman told:
“We just want peace. I’m very afraid of Erdoğan that he will be another ‘Kenan Evren’ (recently passed away head of 1980 military coup). I’m very nervous about HDP whether it will pass the election threshold or not.”
“We live in a space age. Enough with the wars!”
A 60-year-old man said he didn’t want conflicts and fighting anymore.
A 30-year-old man and a woman at the same age: “We Kurds are oppressed. If we had equalities we wouldn’t be discriminated. This is not a ‘Turks vs. Kurds problem.’ This is a matter of life and death!”
“I support AKP”
A tradesman told:
“I support AKP due to religious reasons. Erdoğan does his best. We love Erdoğan and PM Ahmet Davutoğlu and I don’t suppose Erdoğan is exploiting the religion. Moreover, I don’t believe in corruption allegations about the President.”
What youngsters think about?
We met university students in Sülüklü Han (a historical Tavern in Diyarbakır).
“We are sick and tired of the policemen waiting in front of Dicle University in Diyarbakır. They can receive diplomas instead of us if they want to spend time in university so much.
Conversation kept with laughter:
“We don’t think there are too many radical young people who support AKP.”
We learnt students admired Selahattin Demirtaş. Especially female students… They told they liked the attitude and behaviour of Demirtaş and his speech and thought Demirtaş was a charismatic leader.
“We wish we could take a selfie with Demirtaş one day…“ (BK/BD)
* This tour has been made with the help of coordinatorship of P24.
Click here to read this article in Turkish
Beyhan made press statement related to the subject and indicated that because of the fact that marihuana was illegal, drug dealers were selling phenazepam and its derivatives and these chemicals caused to death.
According to Tarık Beyhan, if marihuana was legal, gangsters and to earn illicit money would be prevented and the rate of drug use would decrease. Beyhan defended Marihuana by saying it could be benefited from in the fields such as medical, tourism and tax issues.
"There are quite a few benefits to liberate marihuana, actually. There isn’t a crime without its victim. It doesn’t concern the state what people do as long as it isn’t harmful.
“People don’t obey the rules if they don’t feel any moral discomfort. The law finding marihuana users guilty must be changed.
“If it’s legal, rate of using decreases”
“In countries where Marihuana is legal, the rate of using it decreases. That’s the significant point. If we want to keep our young people away from drug habit, the best solution will be liberation of it.
“Moreover, to gain marihuana easily and legally means people keep away from hard drugs.”
“When weed is illegal, phenazepam and its derivatives pop up”
"State force cannot prevent usage of weed and it looks like it will go on like this. That’s why, people tend to use god knows what kind of drugs."
Medical Usage
“Drug dealers smuggle cheaply manufactured phenazepam. In the past, people die from heroin and cocaine but now they die from phenazepam.
It is known marihuana is effective against the epilepsy and it relieves the pain of cancer patient. The weed must be legal firstly because of medical usage. So, it can ease the pain and then it must be legal step by step.
Income from taxes and tourism
Click here to read this article in Turkish
The President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan, appeared as a guest on a mutual TV show of ATV and A Haber (A News) hosted by journalist Mehmet Barlas. Erdoğan made explanations about the presidential system, Peoples’ Democratic Party (HDP), resolution process, election threshold and the media.
Headlines from Erdoğan’s speech:
Presidential system
“In Russia, Medvedev was the president but Putin was pulling the strings. When Putin was the president, Medvedev was nowhere to be found. It’s not the same in Turkey. Look at the U.S.A and France, the presidents come from political parties.
“The presidential system doesn’t suit opposition party’s book. We had half of the votes in the latest election and had 52% of the votes in the latest presidential elections. It is important for Turkey to have a governing structure with strict determination and of course with presidential system.
“People know right from wrong. They are in peace and relaxed. However, we don’t know what the future brings. General election will be full of surprises until the very last moment.”
Resolution process
“It’s said that Abdullah Öcalan affects political movement or Europe from time to time because the PKK leader is a taboo.
“We are a constitutional state and we should take a step in this direction. If democratic structure is violated, the state makes a backup plan.
Election Threshold
“After the election is over, if it is still necessary to negotiate with HDP, we will do it. Time will tell.
West of country supports HDP
Click here to read this article in Turkish
Title owner, Fatih Ulusoy, announced the land would be transferred to Gedikpaşa Armenian Protestant Church Foundation on May 23.
According to the news of AGOS newspaper, Camp Armen resistance will continue until the deed transfer.
Ulusoy emphasized social peace
Camp Armen, once a home in Tuzla district of İstanbul for orphan Armenian children, would have been pulled down on May 6. However, with the campaigns and protests the demolition stopped. Since then, a resistance keeps going.
Title owner, Fatih Ulusoy, made a written statement and told he bought the land without knowing its confiscation.
Solidarity: We go on resistance until the returning
Camp Armen Solidarity stated they would keep resisting until the deed was transferred to Gedikpaşa Armenian Protestant Foundation.
Alexis Kalk from Nor Zartonk made a statement:
“As a result of our 18-day-old resistance, title owner, Fatih Ulusoy said he would transfer the land to Gedikpaşa Armenian Protestant Foundation. Of course, we will keep resisting until the returning of the land. We declare it to the public opinion. We remind that hundreds of Armenian properties have been usurped by the hand of state. The resolution cannot be left to the individuals. We will be strict followers of all usurped Armenian properties in order to take them back.” (BK/BD)
* Photo Credit: Begüm Zorlu / bia
According to the news of Kızıl Bayrak, detained since May 20, Altıntaş and 10 members of MİB were sent to the court for arrest. The court released Altıntaş and MİB members.
The bones of 4.201 people have been found in 348 mass graves according to İHD Map of Mass Graves.
In order to face
*Should make law. Create a truth and reconciliation commission equipped with broad authority.
*Turkey should be a part of United Nations' International Contract of Protecting People without Enforced Disappearance.
*Turkey must ban enforced disappearanace and recognize it as a crime against humanity. It must be guaranteed for the case not to be prescribed.
*Turkey should open the mass graves with the coopariton of human rights and other related non-governmental organizations and the procedure should continue according to Jordan's Principle.
*DNA banks must be created.
*Prosecutors should make a move officialy and identify the offenders among the security and military police units.
* In order not to allow the repetition of the same incidents, "internal security act" must be abolished.
* Judicial policemen units should be created and linked to public prosecution office.
* Impunity policy must be abandoned for public officers.
İHD Diyarbakır Branch will stage a sit-in today for lost people to be found and justice to be secured. protest will be held at 19 p.m. in Diyarbakır province. (AS/BD)
According to non-governmental organizations, the government don’t do the necessary even though the ruling party can find a solution with the help of today’s technology.
It is estimated that 400.000 visually handicapped people will vote on June 7.
Disabled, paralyzed, people having amputated hands and etc. will vote accompanied by a family member or a voter, according to a legal arrangement made in 2014. In the past, head of ballot box was helping the disabled.
Voting accompanied by someone violates both the election privacy and the election security even if the companion is a reliable person.
Visually handicapped people can vote on by computer system, template system or different technological devices in many countries.
“They should work for the next election from now on”
Suha Sağlam, Head of Six Points Association of the Blind (Altı Nokta Körler Derneği), said that the supreme electoral council was seeking solution for visually handicapped to vote freely but it would be too late for coming election and in order to find a solution for the next election, the authorities must plan and allocate necessary resources. Sağlam added the alternative multisystem could be improved until the best solution came up.
“They didn’t do their parts”
Engin Yılmaz from Vocal Description Association, indicated that there were solutions in the world for visually handicapped people to vote safely but it needed will and labor. Yılmaz said there had been lots of meeting with supreme electoral council until today but the authorities didn’t do their parts.
Bat stroke method
Uğur Demirci from Brail Technic, said they invented a device called “bat stroke” to vote vocally. Bat stroke is a device invented for disabled like visually handicapped or illiterate people. The ballot is inserted into the device and seal is impressed in the direction of vocal instructions by moving the buttons.
According to the news of Yüksekovahaber (Yüksekova news), names of many journalists who applied to the governorship to be in the opening ceremony were sent to the presidency. However, accepted by the governorship, journalists faced an obstacle: The presidency’s accreditation.
Among the media organs which aren’t accredited, there are Doğan News Agency, Dicle News Agency, İhlas News Agency and Cihan News Agency.
The President Erdoğan and PM Davutoğlu will participate in opening ceremony of Hakkari Yüksekova Airport today and then AKP meeting will be held in Şırnak province.
Tradesmen shut down in order to protest the President and PM. Only bakeries and pharmacies are open in the city.
District organizations of HDP and DBP made a written statement and indicated they would protest the President and PM in a democratic way and wouldn’t welcome the couple.
“Considering Kobanê incidents (ISIS sieged Kobane, a border city between Syria and Turkey, Kurds counter attacked resulting a great amount of death toll), the President didn’t send his condolences. We don’t want to welcome him. We protest him in a democratic way. It is immoral and unethical for us to welcome Erdoğan, a man thinking himself as a leader of a political party not a president of 77.000.000 people. A man discriminating Kurds from other people. A man unreliable and interrupting the negotians with the PKK leader Abdullah Öcalan. We respectfully greet our people and know they will handle the situation with delicacy.” (ÇT/BD)
* bianet compiled this news from the website: YüksekovaHaber.com
Upon employer's offer, workers were going to hold a referendum last night but due to a disagreement among the workers, the referendum was cancelled. In this morning, workers signed the protocol and packed up their 13-day-old resistance tents.
Protocol’s 9 articles (shortened):
What happened?
On May 14, 5.600 Renault workers went on strike for pay rise in Bursa province. Almost all of the workers quitted from Metal Workers Trade Union of Turkey because they weren’t glad with the management of the union. Workers continued to strike without a union.
Workers demanded rise in wages based on collective labor agreement (TİS). TİS was contracted Dec 14, 2014 between Metal Workers Trade Union of Turkey (Türk Metal) and Turkey’s Metal Industrialists Union (MESS) and the contract includes years between 2014 and 2017.
According to the schedule planned by Ali Çerkezoğlu and Mücella Yapıcı from Taksim Solidarity; Gezi meeting will be on May 31 in Gezi Park at 13 a.m. and Gezi meeting will be in Beşiktaş and Kadıköy at 15 a.m.
Ali Çerkezoğlu, "We will be in Gezi Park on May 31 with songs and music and determination, of course to commemorate the ones who lost their lives in Gezi Park Resistance.
Press statement:
“On the anniversary of a unique date and a historic moment when a country’s people came from their homes, their parks and squares to protect their bodies, lives, the future and the country and on the anniversary of Gezi Park’s reflection on the history;
"We are everywhere with our bodies, our losses with love and resistance with things which will live forever… We are in the parks and squares of İstanbul and the four corners of the country. We are everywhere to live Gezi and to remember Gezi.
Justice was demanded in sit-in around the candles and the photos of the missing people. All political parties and democratic public opinion were called on ”Help us to struggle with enforced disappearances and to find the offenders.”
“Don’t forget, only justice heals. We’ll keep struggling until the justice is secured.”
Nothing has been done for 20 years
It was explained on behalf of İstanbul Branch of Human Rights Association’s International Coalition against Enforced Disappearance: “In 1995, the jurisdiction was suspended and the media was a liar.”
Since February 7, 2009 family members of missing people has started to protest in Southeastern cities like Diyarbakır, Urfa, Batman, Cizre and Yüksekova.
“In 2011, former PM Recep Tayyip Erdoğan promised Saturday Mothers but he didn’t keep his end of the bargain.
“We didn’t get a result from neither jurisdiction nor Grand National Assembly of Turkey’s Commission of Human Rights.
“Enforced disappearance is a crime against the humanity. This crime making family members of missing people feel “numb” continues until the offenders are found and put on trial. None of the political parties should keep this practice. None of them can do it.
*Turkey should be a part of United Nations' International Contract of Protecting People without Enforced Disappearance.
*Turkey must ban enforced disappearanace and recognize it as a crime against humanity. It must be guaranteed for the case not to be prescribed.
* Photo Credit: Twitter / direnisteyizorg
Like laborers in Bursa, workers demanded pay rise and their resignations to be recognized by Metal Workers Trade Union of Turkey.
‘Generous’ offer form employer
Fort Otosan Corporation made a stamen related to the strike which has been going on for four days in Eskişehir province:
“In the end of May, our blue-collar workers will be paid 1000 Turkish liras as support payment. Besides, workers who start to work and maintain continuity will be paid 200 Turkish liras as prize. As before, holiday and New Year’s gift cards will be given. Workers will be paid generously in the years when things are going well.”
Is a fight for bread and butter malicious?
İsmail Demirbaş, spokesperson of workers, stated employers didn’t pay attention to workers:
"Our friends don’t want a union (Metal Workers Trade Union of Turkey) and we say ‘We are not from the union. There is no such thing as ’union’. We are from Harran (an ancient city in Urfa province in Southeast of Turkey). Our struggle will continue come rain or shine. Authorities find our fight malicious. What is malicious? Is a fight for bread and butter malicious?”
People agree that due to Syria policy, votes of Justice and Development Party (AKP) will decrease while HDP will take a bit more votes.
According to Fazlı Gündüz from local newspaper, Şaşmaz, CHP hasn’t a suitable deputy candidate. That’s why, HDP will take a sum of its votes.
An 80-year-old woman: “My husband is confined to bed for 20 years. The state helps a bit and our neighbors help, too. I just wish peace and freedom for youth. What else do I wish? God help us!”
Finally, we spoke with deputy candidate, Nihat Eraslan from HDP, Ahmet Atıç, provincial Head of AKP and Adnan Şefik Çirkin, Provincial Head of MHP related to the latest situation in Hatay.
Eraslan from HDP expressed they would pass the election threshold and have at least one deputy and HDP would be an important alternative because the oppression against all citizens in Hatay increased.
Şefik Çirkin from MHP mentioned the economic problems. Çirkin told 8000 trailer trucks were empty and 50000 people were jobless due to Syria War. (EKN/BD)
* This tour has been made with the help of coordinatorship of P24.
National Intelligence Organization (MİT) Trucks had been stopped while carrying ammo to Syria upon the instruction of the prosecutor. Photos of ammo have been published in Cumhuriyet Newspaper and Cumhuriyet website. It is seen from the published photos, cardboard boxes which placed inside of steel boxes had medicines inside of them. However, the ammo had been hidden under the medicines.
The case was declared to proceed no further and the prosecutors and gendarmerie who stopped the trucks were arrested. (AS/BD)
Click here to read this article in Turkish
“Election is coming. A daily newspaper published the alleged photos of MİT Trucks. Devlet Bahçeli (Head of Nationalist Movement Party), so called nationalist, criticized that. He criticized our aid to Syria. I’ll teach him a lesson; you cannot cooperate with someone who gives away the state secrets. It is espionage. Bahçeli says let’s protect Turkmens but we literally help Bayırbucak Turkmens in Syria. Yes I honesty tell, those were the aids taken to Bayırbucak Turkmens.”
“Media organs publishing these news before the election are evildoers. They want to make Turkey appear guilty in front of the international community.”
Davutoğlu’s allegation for violence against the woman
Click here to read this article in Turkish
TGC: Dündar pulled his weight for the public
“Can Dündar, Chief Editor of Cumhuriyet Daily Newspaper, pulled his weight for the public by publishing the news and photos of MİT Trucks.
“The President threatened Can Dündar explicitly by saying 'This is espionage and the journalist made the news will pay a heavy price for it.' The President’s mission shouldn’t be threatening the journalists. It violates the rule of law principle.
“We as the Council of Turkish Journalists Association, call the President and the government to stop the oppression and threats over the journalists.
ÇGD: We put our complete trust in Dündar
ÇGD asked “What will Erdoğan do? Will he hire a gun or put the journalists in jail? All journalists were threatened beside Can Dündar. Is this an instruction for the prosecutors and the court conducting the case? Are they threatened too?”
Head of ÇGD, Ahmet Abakay “We put our complete trust in Dündar and support him.”
“In Turkey, many journalists and writers were murdered like Hrant Dink. None of the killers have been found and the state itself lost the tracks of the murderers.
“The President should immediately recant. We reject it. Our country is dominated by lynching. Many lunatics are waiting for an opportunity to carry out these instructions for killing. We want to remind that Erdoğan’s words instigate and could wreak havoc.
“This threat is also against all free press and free journalists not only Can Dündar. I put my complete trust in Dündar because the news is true. Eroğan already doesn’t deny the trueness of it.”
Press Council: Dark clouds over the press
Press Council: “We witnessed the attempts of the President Erdoğan to censor the journalism. We are worry about that these behaviors will spread like dark clouds between journalists and media organs and target journalists and will bring irreparable damages.”
“In a democratic country, Turkey, people have the freedom of information; these kinds of discourses bring along threats, fear, censorship and the most important one, self-censor.
“We are worry about all journalists beside Can Dündar who pursue the truth.
“Press, freedom of expression and information are threatened explicitly by political forces.” (EA/BD)
Click here to read this article in Turkish
PM Ahmet Davutoğlu claimed that Cumhuriyet Daily Newspaper which published the photos of MİT Trucks “threatened them”:
Davutoğlu spoke to public in Kırıkkale and Ankara meetings:
“A week later there will be election. I warn people who will threat voters. We will take the necessary precautions. We are the ultimate party which unites Turkey.”
“We send aid to Bayır Bucak Turkmens in order not to leave them to the oppression of Syria. Traitors want to spy on us. They complain about us to the foreign forces. They want to stop the rising Turkey.”
What did the President say?
The President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan, threatened Chief Editor of Cumhuriyet Daily Newspaper, Can Dündar explicitly related to the news of Trucks belonging to MİT (National Intelligence Organization) and conveying ammo to Syria published on daily:
“Cumhuriyet Daily is a part of espionage with parallel structure. Where did you take that amount of ammo? I filed a lawsuit. If they are really honest, they will explain the truth. The journalist who made the news will pay a heavy price for it. He can’t get away with it.”
Grizzly bear, rupicapra rupicapra ornate and chevrotain are the three symbols of wild life in Turkey.
Grizzly bear is one of the endangered species which takes part in Berne Convention on the Conservation of European Wildlife and Natural Habitats. It is also takes part in Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora.
It is allowed to hunt grizzly bear, rupicapra rupicapra ornate and chevrotain in Turkey. The reason behind is wild animals and people’s coming face to face and putting human life at risk.
Tenders were initiated in 10 provinces
Directorate of Nature Conservation and National Parks of Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs permitted many wild life species including 15 bears, 109 chevrotains and 4 rupicapra rupicapra ornate to be hunted between May 1and December 15.
After the tenders are initiated in different cities, tourism agencies which will pay the most will sell the obtained quota to the hunters.
WWF started a petition via change.org and wants these tenders to be cancelled.
Natural life has been narrowed, we don’t know the number
World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF) -Turkey says animals whose natural habitat have been narrowed face people unwillingly but it doesn’t mean the population of wild animals increased.
“It is unknown in Turkey whether these endangered species increased or not with untrustworthy data. We are worried about other species, too. These critical decisions should be made with scientific data and observations. We are expecting a detailed explanation from the authorities related to the subject.”
WWF is against all hunting activities except few tribes hunting for living. It is stated that Turkey cannot be considered as one of those tribes and societies.
Provinces which initiate tender for hunting tourism are: Adıyaman, Ankara, Giresun, Denizli, Antalya, Artvin, Bolu, Erzincan, Erzurum, Hatay. (NV/BD)
“The act of Dündar who targeted the state and the nation by working with parallel structure cannot be considered as journalism.”
"Dündar committed the crimes of attempting to influence fair trial by publishing news, commentary and images which don’t reflect the truth and he violated the secrecy of the state.”
In 1994, İbrahim Kartay was detained by soldiers in his village and he never returned. His estimated grave will be opened today.
His religiously-wed wife, Salime Çakır, has been looking for her spouse since the day he was lost. Çakır applied to Diyarbakır provincial branch of Human Rights Association (İHD) for legal aid.
According to Salime Çıkar, her village was evacuated and burnt down by soldiers on August 15, 1994, her husband was taken away by soldiers and villagers had to leave their homes. Salime Çakır stated she hadn’t seen her husband since that day.
Based on the description of a cemetery guard, İbrahim Kartay could be found buried near an electric transformer by the side of cemetery.
After the application of Salime Çakır, lawyers of Diyarbakır provincial branch of İHD appealed to Diyarbakır Public Prosecution Office for grave to be opened. Prosecutor took statements of Çakır and cemetery guard and decided the grave to be opened.
Lawyers from İHD will attend the opening of the grave today. (AS/BD)
Click here to read this article in Turkish
Operation started at 3 o’clock a.m. in company with many armored vehicle and special operations team. Police simultaneously launched operation into predetermined addresses.
43 people were detained; 4 of them were children.
A list of 80 names on it was found and 37 people were wanted within the scope of the investigation.
According to the news of Yüksekovahaber.com, living in one of the raided house, Asya Ülker, stated her son was performing his military service.
Hasip Kaplan, Şırnak provincial deputy of Peoples’ Democratic Party (HDP), responded to operation via twitter: “80 detention in Şırnak! A complete provocation from Justice and Development Party (AKP) and abdication of reason. (NV/BD)
8 out of 36 promises have been carried out. It seems possible for 3 out of 7 promises to be carried out in a year. Rest of the promises, in other words 70% of the promises haven’t been carried out before 2015 or it is impossible to carry out them.
Doğruluk Payı started to broadcast as a part of Ortak Gelecek için Diyalog Derneği (Dialogue for Common Future Association) in June 20, 2014. The website shares politicians’ discourses with open sources and data with public opinion daily.
People who support AKP actually support Tayyip Erdoğan not the party itself. Those people think Erdoğan is a world leader. Others think Erdoğan exaggerated the “parallel structure” and went to extremes with the presidential palace.
A tradesman:
A female technician:
"I think AKP failed in the field of economy and reconstruction. People who are partisan of AKP also are aware of these problems. I don’t support the presidential system and I don’t want Erdoğan to be the president.”
"AKP is spoilt"
A university student:
"I both like and criticize AKP. They are being offending. Enough with parallel structure. I’m not sure about the bribery and corruption operation but AKP should clear up the mess. Erdoğan went to extremes with presidential palace.”
An accountant:
Click here to read this article in Turkish
After the strike in Renault factory located in Bursa province, workers went on strike in Ford Otosan. Now employers and employee made an agreement.
Ford Otosan laborers had been on strike for 15 days for pay rise and for an objection to the management of Metal Workers Trade Union of Turkey.
An employee, Hakan Cömert, said 12 management personnel were dismissed.
Ford Otosan strike in Eskişehir ended yesterday. The company made a statement to Public Disclosure Platform (KAP) and the production started.
Ankara Turk Tractor workers had been on strike for 12 days. Strike ended on Monday. Nonetheless, spokespeople of workers were dismissed.
What happened?
On May 14, 5.600 Renault workers stopped working for pay rise. Almost all of Renault workers resigned from Metal Workers Trade Union of Turkey.
Erdoğan said:
“There is a newspaper called New York Times. This newspaper excitedly announced the assassination attempt against Sultan Abdul Hamid II of Ottoman Empire. They announced excitedly the death of Adnan Menderes (Turkish Prime Minister between 1950-1960). They invectively announced the death of Turgut Özal (8th President of Turkey).
Who are you?! Can you affect the governing of the U.S.A.? There is no such thing. They don’t allow a newspaper to interfere. In Turkey, certain media organs, provided financial support from shadowy people, want to interfere us like you. We will declare the end of pro-coup mindset with a new constitution and presidential system,” on May 25.
On May 28, New York Times gave a headline: "For Turkey's Ruler, Criticism From New York Is Not Fit to Print"
NY Times: "Having already moved from the prime minister's office to the new presidential palace, President Recep Tayyip Erdogan seems to have assumed a new, unofficial role this week as Turkey's chief press critic."
Click here to read this article in Turkish
According to the data given by the company managed by CEO Tarhan Erdem and General Manager Bekir Ağırdır, Peoples’ Democratic Party (HDP) passes the election threshold.
Justice and development Party (AKP) takes 41%, Republican People's Party (CHP) 27.8%, Nationalist Movement Party (MHP) 14.8% and HDP takes 12.6% of the votes. Other parties take 3.8% of the votes.
Study was done between May 30 and 31, 2015. It included face to face dialogue with 3,543 people in 30 provinces, 126 districts, 202 towns and villages.
Participation in the election will be 88%. Votes of citizens abroad are not included.
KONDA also published the latest observation over the nine months of the political parties.
Number of the deputies according to the latest opinion polls
It was pointed out in the statement that growing cities, climate change, increasing consumption, transportation and industrial activities not only affect humans but also species. It was indicated that Turkey, a country hosted more than 11,000 plant species, needed serious environmental protection.
Hunting tourism for endangered species
Headlines from WWF Turkey's statement are as below:
* The International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) Red List of Threatened Species include 127 fishes, 103 plants, 17 mammals and 16 bird species.
* 364 endangered species include grizzly bear, chevrotain and mouflon which are killed in the name of hunting tourism.
Air pollution increases
* As cities grow, a life style which promotes the consumption of energy and resources is becoming widespread. Using fossil fuel for heating and traffic triggers air pollution.
Only 60% of the waste water is purified
* Only 60% of the waste water of the society is purified. Absence of public transportation is felt in fast growing cities. Mega projects like 3rd bridge, 3rd Airport and hydroelectric plant projects threat the natural life.
Greenhouse gas has increased by 110%
* Climate change report of Turkey is not pleasant at all. Compared to the year of 1990, greenhouse gas has increased by 110% since the end of 2013. The amount of greenhouse gas emission per person in Turkey has passed 6,000 kilograms and has approached to the average amount of European countries.
67% of the greenhouse gases result from energy resources
* The data here show Turkey should take responsibility in climate summit which will be held in Paris in the end of the year. As usage of fossil fuel is increasing, climate change is triggered and species are affected.
“I wish 2015 general elections results which was held on Sunday will bring prosperity and luck to our country and nation.
Participation rate in the elections reflect our mighty nation’s willpower and determination of democracy.
Our nation’s decision is primary. I believe all political parties will make a reliable and realistic assessment since no parties come to power alone.
We take yet another turn; it’s crucial for all political parties to protect meticulously the environment of trust and stability and to take responsibilities.
12.29% of Turkey’s population, i.e. 9 million people are disabled in the country but there are only two disabled female deputies in parliament.
Şafak Pavey from Republican People’s Party (CHP) was elected for the second time from İstanbul province.
Physically handicapped Bennu Karaburun from Justice and Development Party (AKP) was elected from Bursa province.
Click here to read this article in Turkish
From tent to the parliament
From Republican People’s Party (CHP) Özcan Purçu, the first Romani deputy of Turkey, was elected from İzmir province 1st region.
37-year-old Özcan Purçu was born and grew up in a tent in Romani neighborhood of Aydın province.
Three Armenian deputies
After 54 years, three Armenian deputies entered the parliament. Garo Paylan from Peoples’ Democratic Party (HDP) from İstanbul 3rd region 2nd row, Selina Özuzun Doğan from CHP from 1st region 1st row and Markar Esayan from Justice and Development Party (AKP) from İstanbul 12th row were elected.
Two Yezidi deputies
Number of Yezidis had decreased to 500 in Turkey but after ISIS attacks, most of Yezidis emigrated from Iraq to Turkey. Yezidis will enter the parliament for the first time.
Former member of European Parliament, Feleknas Uca, was elected from HDP from Diyarbakır province 4th row and Head of European Yezidi Association, Ali Atalan, was elected from the same party from Batman province 1st row.
A Mhallami deputy
Mehmet Ali Aslan, the first Mhallami deputy, was elected from HDP from Mardin province 4th row.
Assyrian deputy for a second time
Assyrian deputy Erol Dora who was elected from Peace and Democracy Party (BDP) from Mardin province will be in the parliament for a second time; from HDP this time. (NV/BD)
Abdullah Gül said:
“I called my friends from AKP on election day before the results were announced in case they were busy. The election results have been announced. We said ‘Nation’s willpower shall appear’ and it appeared so. Everyone should respect the nation’s will. We understand from the statements they respect already…”
“We should assess the election results without panic but with common sense. After all, we live in a multiparty system. This happens all the time. It happened in the past, too. Everybody has worked so hard and is so tired.”
MHP general headquarters appealed to election boards of districts related to the election results in Amasya, Kocaeli, Çankırı, Çorum, Iğdır, Malatya provinces and Ankara 2nd region. If all of the objections are approved, MHP deputies will be 82.
Hasan Ali Tütüncü, provincial head of AKP in Giresun, said they appealed to election board for invalid votes to be counted again.
AKP and HDP made an objection in Muş province. AKP claimed that there was block voting in districts of Muş. HDP claimed that returning officers were not allowed to get in the school which the voting was held in.
Moreover, HDP stated they would appeal to Supreme Electoral Council of Turkey (YSK) because some of the votes were counted in favor of other parties in spite of official reports and so HDP couldn’t have the 4th deputy.
According to the unofficial data of Anatolia Agency, distribution of existing deputies in provinces where objections were made is as below:
Amasya province: AKP 2, CHP 1 deputy
Ankara 2nd region: AKP 8, CHP 4, MHP 2 deputies.
Kocaeli province: AKP 6, CHP 3, HDP 1, MHP 1 deputy.
Çankırı province: AKP 2 deputies.
Çorum province: AKP 3, CHP 1 deputy.
Iğdır province: HDP 2 deputies.
Giresun province: AKP 2, MHP 1, CHP 1 deputy.
Malatya province: AKP 5, CHP 1 deputy.
Click here to read this article in Turkish
In May, Tofaş workers went on strike for pay rise and union right. After 10 days of strike, employers and employees made an agreement.
The employer guaranteed none of the employees would be dismissed due to the strike. However, two workers were dismissed due to strike yesterday. That’s why, Tofaş workers went on strike again this morning.
What happened?
On May 14, 5.600 Renault workers stopped working for pay rise. Almost all of Renault workers resigned from Metal Workers Trade Union of Turkey.
Workers from factories like TOFAŞ, Coşkunöz, MAKO and Ototrim stopped working soon after. Workers demanded rise in wages based on collective labor agreement (TİS). TİS was contracted Dec 14, 2014 between Metal Workers Trade Union of Turkey (Türk Metal) and Turkey’s Metal Industrialists Union (MESS) and the contract includes years between 2014 and 2017. After TOFAŞ, Coşkunöz, MAKO and Ototrim, an agreement between employers and employee was made in Renault. (NV/BD)
* Photo Credit: Anatolia Agency/ Elif Özlem Çelikler
The dialogue between two politicians:
Selahattin Demirtaş: How are you, miss?
Şafak Pavey: Thanks. What about you? Congratulations. We rocked together.
Selahattin Demirtaş: I hope everything is going to be all right.
Şafak Pavey: So do I.
* We compiled this news from hurriyet.com.tr
After Show TV had been transferred to Ciner Media Group, Melih Altınok’s TV program was discontinued broadcasting. Altınoluk shared on his twitter account: ”Election results are coming to the media. Ciner discontinued broadcasting of my program ‘Güne Merhaba’ (Say Hi to the Day!)! Very well!”
Ersoy Dede, columnist from Yeni Akit (a conservative and Islamist Turkish daily) shared his feeling on the subject via twitter: “Free press! Melih Altınok’s TV program in Show TV was discontinued. Altınok was such a good man. Thank God Ciner Media Group approved him,” in a sarcastic way.
Sevilay Yükselir was dismissed, too
After the general elections, Sabah Daily columnist Sevilay Yükselir who criticized Deputy PM Yalçın Akdoğan was dismissed.
Sevilay Yükselir shared on her twitter account:”I was dismissed from Sabah daily in which I’ve been writing for seven years since I supported Peoples’ Democratic Party (HDP) and I wanted HDP to pass the election threshold. Let’s hope for the best. Keep going as a journalist. By the way, I don’t deserve to be criticized by my colleagues because I didn’t hesitate to be fair.”
Reception in the presidential palace started at 17.40. Erdoğan and Davutoğlu had a closed-door meeting for an hour.
The presidency stated:
O.G. who was captured on Saturday for bombing attacks in the Station Square carried out on June 5 was arrested by Diyarbakır Criminal Court of Peace on duty after his statement was taken.
Public Prosecutor of Diyarbakır stated that O.G. was arrested for ‘willful murder and being a member of a terror organization’.
"We are the ones who are killed but also we are the ones who are blamed by the government. If you can’t rule a country, let it go. We’ll find someone who will do it.
“We are not an armed terrorist organization. People know who has the guns. Everyone should be prudent and patient.
“We let down their provocations but it cost us dear. Every day we hold a funeral but the president and the prime minister are still silent. This country will go on with or without Justice and Development Party (AKP).
”We aren’t like lambs to the slaughter”
Demirtaş said everyone should respect the public choice referring the election results and stressed that HDP would take a firm stand.
“Now HDP is targeted across the country.
“People made a choice. Everyone should respect it. Pity on them who discuss our legitimacy.
“Let them attack if they want. HDP will take a firm stand. We aren’t like lambs to the slaughter.
“Even a borrowed vote is precious"
“We feel indebted for all peoples of Turkey. Malevolent people can't create a chaotic atmosphere.
“If we weren’t mature, people wouldn’t live in this country.
“HDP took 13,2% of the votes. Even a borrowed vote is precious. However, we didn’t pass the election threshold with borrowed votes. Our party has strong party alignments.
"Come side by side with HDP"
Baykal mentioned two of them generally talked over Turkey’s domestic and foreign problems and projects for more than two hours and added Erdoğan was open up to all coalition possibilities.
Deniz Baykal remarked:
“We agree that Turkey’s problems should be solved immediately and the stability should be provided.
“The President Erdoğan wants a government to be formed. He isn’t against the coalition of opposition parties.
"Snap election isn’t preferred”
“Erdoğan and I didn’t talk about the election results. General elections are over. People stated their opinion. The rest is up to the political parties.
“Party rules decide the coalition possibilities. If party rules agree, the President cannot say ‘No’.
Fatih Zengin will be responsible for the young trees for six months but the place for the trees to be planted on isn’t decided yet by the court.
On May 28, 2013 the police attacked people who wanted to defense Gezi Park and pepper sprayed Ceyda Sungur at close range. Iconic woman in red's photo was scattered to the four winds and Sungur became an icon of Gezi Park Protests.
According to the news, the defendant O.G was arrested by Criminal Court of Peace last night in Antep province and admitted his offence. Public Prosecutor of Diyarbakır stated that O.G. was arrested for ‘willful murder and being a member of a terror organization’.
Prosecution launched an investigation against a reporter and public authorities since the privacy of investigation was violated.
Chief Prosecutor, Ramazan Solmaz, said they were strong willed to keep investigation transparent but gave confidentiality order since some information was published in press against the welfare of the case.
Waiting for three days near the border of Urfa province's Akçakale district, approximately 3 thousand Syrians were allowed to cross the Turkey's border yesterday.
Deputy Prime Minister, Numan Kurtulmuş made an explanation related to the refugees: "We will stop the crossing of the border unless there is a real tragedy and will wait for these people to go the safe regions."
After given food and water, Syrians was taken to tent cities under the military control.
Refugees' bodies were searched and then they were taken to registration office accompanied by Prime Ministry Disaster and Emergency Management Presidency (AFAD).
Riot control vehicles (TOMA) sprayed water on Syrians who were affected from hot weather upon their requests.
People's Protection Units (YPG) and ISIS are still fighting in the area. Coalition forces lead by the U.S.A are bombing ISIS in Syria.
There are 2 million Syrian refugees in Turkey. According to Amnesty International's report 'struggling to Survive: Refugees from Syria in Turkey', more than 190 thousand people died in Syria since March 2011.
10.8 million people in Syria need urgent help. 6.45 million of them were displaced.
4 million women, men and children had to leave their country.
Peripheral countries of Syria like Turkey, Lebanon, Jordan, Iraq and Egypt host 95% of Syrian refugees. In Lebanon, there are 1.13 million registered Syrians since October 2014. Jordan hosts 619 thousand Syrian refugees.
Erdoğan said a government should be formed immediately in ATO Congresium in Ankara.
“The ones who are captive of their egos and leave Turkey leaderless cannot answer neither the history nor our nation.
“That’s why, everyone should overcome his ego and a government should be formed immediately. Stability of the state should be provided.
“We don’t have any patience for recession as a country who has 800 billion dollar as national income, has increased her exportation to 160 billion dollar and decreased unemployment to single digit level.”
Meeting Deniz Baykal
Erdoğan stated he invited Republican People’s Party (CHP) deputy Deniz Baykal since Baykal was the eldest Member of Parliament.
“We assessed the process and I stated him that I would do my best because we have ongoing investments which cannot be failed. These investments belong to our nation. If we lose them, our country and nation lose.
“I stated Baykal that we should cooperate.”
“I’ll do my constitutional duty”
Erdoğan reminded participation rate in general elections was high and the results made impossible to come to power alone but it didn’t mean being leaderless.
“This is the result of nation’s willpower. Everyone should respect it.
“Election results made impossible to come to power alone but it doesn’t mean being leaderless.
“The most important feature of democracy is to find resolutions when these things happen.
“I invite all political parties to be calm and responsible for welfare of the country in order to deal with this process with minimum damage.
“Nobody should doubt that I’ll do my constitutional duty.”
Western media
Erdoğan criticized western media by saying political parties preferred resolution than crisis.
“If God permits, all forces who focus on Turkey to have a crisis will be disappointed one more time.
“I particularly have to tell that I find western media which attacks me in a very worthless and ugly way awful.
Kemal Kılıçdaroğlu said:
"Everyone should know that we will assess the situation with mutual ideas by protecting our values in order to keep our promises.
Önder said they applied Ministry of Justice to go to İmralı Island (which Abdullah Öcalan, the leader of PKK, lives in). The delegation went to İmralı on April 5.
Group Deputy Chairmen Pervin Buldan and İdris Baluken from HDP İmralı delegation participated in Sırrı Süreyya’s press statement.
Önder stated that a total national coalition should be formed. “The President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan undermined the resolution process. Peoples of Turkey turned the tables on Erdoğan after the general elections.
“We should form a national coalition totally. Not only with parliament members but also with supporters outside. This is far more important than the coalition of government.”
Önder said by indicating that they haven’t negotiated with the government for two months:
“This is our cause and there is nothing more precious or dear to us than this cause. A date for disarmament may be announced after the delegation go to İmralı.”
Deputy Önder pointed out HDP’s votes from general elections (13% of the votes) were a part of permanent ceasefire but leader Abdullah Öcalan would decide that.
Upon the question whether HDP deputies would swear the parliamentary oath in Kurdish or not, Sırrı Süreyya Önder answered “All of our oaths will be appropriate for standing orders.” (NV/BD)
* Photo Credit: AA/Volkan Furuncu
Abdullah Geldi, Co-Chair of Göç-Der said “We request constitutional security for returning home,” and stated that new government to be formed should pay pecuniary and non-pecuniary damages of displaced people.
Call for the new government to be formed
Göç-Der called for the new government to be formed to not intervene in Syrian civil war, to open the borders for immigrants, to start negotiations for resolution process, to investigate the unidentified murders and to pay pecuniary and non-pecuniary damages of displaced people.
Besides Göç-Der requested urban transformation projects and Hydroelectric Plant Projects to be stopped.
“Suspension of human rights and freedoms kept going in Kurdistan since 1980 Coup d’etat and 1987 when a state of emergency was declared. 3 million people were displaced and a thousand dwelling units were evacuated.
“People were left alone. They were treated unfairly and region’s cultural structure was affected badly. Immigrants faced discrimination.”
“Government’s attitude and behavior are wrong”
“Ceasefire gave hope to the peoples lately. However, people lost their hopes due to government’s attitude and behavior.
"How to form coalitions could be settled with dialogue between political parties. Our president will assign the duty to our prime minister.
“If voters give you a message for agreement, you can’t have a reason for disagreement. A result will come otherwise it’s not the end of the world.”
Snap election
Upon the question about snap election, Kurtulmuş answered: “We never thought we would have a few more votes than before. Even we took risks. If you can’t think big, your party can’t think big.
Kurtulmuş interpreted the President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan’s expression ‘recurring election’ instead of snap election:
“Our president has been against the snap election throughout his life. As he knows Turkey got harmed from snap elections, he always has been against the idea of snap election.”
After he was taken to Kocaeli University Medical Faculty Hospital, it was detected that Aktürk was shot by three bullets.
Even though Aktürk was taken into operation, he lost his life.
Suspects who allegedly shot Aktürk fled the scene.
Chief Public Prosecutor: It’s a terrorist attack
Chief Public Prosecutor of Kocaeli Province, Mustafa Küçük, made a statement to Hürriyet Daily News related to the event and said: ”I think it’s a terrorist attack.”
Mustafa Küçük stated that İsmet Aktürk had problems in his previous duty in T-Type Prison of Osmaniye province (a city in the Çukurova region of Turkey) and indicated that he got some information related to the case.
Aktürk had been in Kandıra for a year
After working in different provinces as a prison warden, İsmet Aktürk was assigned to F-Type Prison in İzmit from T-Type Prison in Osmaniye.
Karakuş was requested to be punished according to the prepared accusation. Melih Gökçek was complainant.
Karakuş: It’s a threat
Karakuş said:
“The accusation is a threat against the Chamber of Architects and Union of Chambers of Turkish Engineers and Architects.
“In this country, the ones who have immunity shield won’t be on trial. The ones who defend a piece of earth of this country, her forests, water and who defend Atatürk Forest Farm (recently the Presidential Palace was built on its land) will be on trial. It stinks.”
What had Karakuş said?
After Bülent Arınç’s explanation ‘sold inch by inch’, Tezcan Karakuş said in March:
“The timing of Melih Gökçek who declared by government’s spokesperson that he sold Ankara inch by inch is suspect because he accused us of disturbing the peace and notified us on World Theatre Day. It is evident that we disrupted their parceling and unearned incomes.
“Because of these people who violate the law and their parceling and selling the land inch by inch, there isn’t any public order. Everybody knows who disturbs the peace and who works for the public weal.
AKP had appealed for reconsideration of votes in Diyarbakır, Van and Giresun provinces while HDP appealed for the votes in Elazığ province.
Deadline
Deadline for appeals to YSK is at 5 o’clock p.m. today.
However, it is possible to appeal to YSK till June 21, 5 o’clock p.m. for extraordinary situations.
PM Davutoğlu condoled with Demirel’s family in Güniz Street, Ankara and said he declared national mourning for three days as a part of state protocol.
Davutoğlu stated a funeral prayer with state ceremony would be performed for Demirel on Friday in Kocatepe Mosque, Ankara.
Ahmet Davutoğlu:
PM Davutoğlu stated another funeral ceremony for Demirel would be performed in Isparta, Süleyman Demirel’s hometown on Saturday and required precautions were taken for that. (EA/BD)
Click here to read this article in Turkish
Interviewed by journalists on Show TV, Davutoğlu answered a question about Justice and Development Party’s (AKP) decreased votes in general elections: “The reason could be boasting too much.”
"Think about a ruling party who has been in power for 12 years. A success story. There is a possibility for us to have too much self-confidence. Using of force for 12 years could cause some misunderstandings. Accepting all of these, we should self-criticize.”
Upon the question about coalition possibilities and snap election, Davutoğlu answered: “When I plan, I don’t think about the alternatives. Alternative is another step. We’ll do anything for coalition. It’s our priority. Note that we don’t intend to threaten people with snap election and force them to accept coalition. It is not our concept. “
Demirtaş criticized AKP’s discourse before the elections and pointed out that discourse made AKP lose votes.
“We leave the door open for all political parties”
“Demirtaş stated that HDP didn’t negotiate with other parties officially or unofficially but they left the door open for all parties:
“PM Ahmet Davutoğlu should abandon his discourse before the elections. That discourse made AKP lose votes.
“We don’t receive instructions”
“Everyone can express their ideas. Kurdish Communities Union (KCK) authorities can express their ideas. They are agents of resolution process. However, we don’t receive instructions from KCK.
In the first five months of 2015, men killed 120 women; raped 49; forced 103 to prostitution; injured 168, harassed 127.
Murder
In May, men killed 26 women and a girl. Besides a dead body of a woman was found and two women allegedly committed suicide.
15% of women were killed due to divorce claim or because they refused reconciliation or marriage proposal.
8% of women were killed in spite of her husband’s temporary debarment while 8% of women were killed because they weren’t taken serious in police station.
65% of murders were committed by gun: Murders were performed with pistol (10), rifle (7), knives (5), by strangling (2), battering (1). One of the ways of killing is uncertain.
The murderers were aged between 17 to 80years old; while female victims' ages differed from 19 to 75 in May 2015.
Murder cases were reported in the following cities: Ankara (4), Antalya, Balıkesir, Çorum (2), Denizli, Diyarbakır, Edirne, Elazığ, Giresun, Iğdır, İstanbul (3), İzmir, Kastamonu, Kırklareli, Kocaeli, Mardin, Muğla, Nevşehir (2) and Yalova.
Rape
In May, men raped 7 women and forced a woman to prostitution.
71% of rapists were female victims’ friends: Rapists in May were identified as employers (2), colleague (1), lover (1) and stranger (1). In a gang rape case, acquaintanceship between female victim and rapists were not included.
33% rape cases took place in houses, another 33% took place in workplace: workplace (2), house (2), hospital (1) and vehicle (1). A place where a gang rape took place wasn’t published in the news.
According to the news, only two rapists were arrested.
While rape case perpetrators were aged between 22and 63, rape cases victims were aged between 14 and 34 in May.
Rape cases in April were reported in the following cities: Antalya, İstanbul, Kırklareli, Kocaeli, Konya, Kütahya and Mardin. Forcing to prostitution took place in Adana.
Battery-Assault
In May, men battered 27 women.
%15 of women were battered because they wanted to divorce. %15 of women were battered in spite of her husband’s temporary debarment.
%7 of women who were battered were forced into marriage. In spite of temporary debarment, they were severely injured.
%30 of women who were battered were transsexuals.
26% of women were battered by their husbands: other perpetrators were husbands (7), lovers (4), ex-husband (3), father (2), ex-lover (1) and stranger (2). 8 transsexuals were battered by strangers.
70% of cases were performed with death causing ways; knife (8), pistol (6), sharp object (1), object (1), by pouring gasoline (1), by battering (8).
While perpetrators were aged between 26 and 59, female victims were aged between 17 and 55 in May.
In May violence cases were reported in the following cities: Adana (5), Afyon, Antalya (3), Çorum, Diyarbakır, Edirne, Elazığ, İstanbul (10), İzmir (2), Kocaeli and Sakarya.
Harassment
In May, men harassed and threatened 31 women.
87% of the women were harassed by strangers. Others by: religiously wed husband (1), ex-lover (1), teacher (1), service man (1) and strangers (27).
26% of harassment cases were physical abuse. Other cases included verbal abuse (1), stalking (1), exhibitionism (3) and by threating (1).
84% of harassment cases took place in the street: street (26), home (2), coiffeur (1), school (1) and public transportation vehicle (1).
One of the female victims was a tourist.
Harassment cases in May were reported in the following cities: Adana (2), Aksaray, Bursa, Diyarbakır (6), Eskişehir (9), İstanbul (2), Kocaeli (4), Samsun (4), Şırnak andUrfa.
Regional distribution
In May 2015, 92 cases of violence against women, murder, attempted murder, harassment, rape and injury were reported.
Participated in 25th Term General Parliamentary Election, none of the independent candidates could receive sufficient number of votes in order to enter parliament which includes 550 deputies.
President of Supreme Electoral Council, Sadi Güven, explained that the council assessed all appeals and replied to the appellants.
Participation rate: 83.92%
According to the results announced by YSK, participation rate: 83.92%. Four parties with the most votes: AKP 40.87%; CHP 24.95%; MHP 16.29%; HDP 13.12%.
Number of registered voters: 56,608,817
Number of voters who went to polls: 47,507,467
Number of valid votes: 46,163,243
Number of invalid votes: 1,344,224
(BD)
Click here to read this article in Turkish
According to the news of Cumhuriyet Daily, police stopped BHH members and attacked them by saying a protest couldn’t be allowed.
Freedom and Solidarity Party (ÖDP) Co-Chair Alper Taş called for protesters to meet at 5 o’clock in front of Galatasaray High School in İstiklal Avenue after the police attack.
After the call, BHH members came to Galatasaray Square and police attacked again with tear gas and water cannon.
Alper Taş spoke to protesters who didn’t disperse in spite of police attack : “You can march in the name of caliphate but you cannot march in the name of democracy in İstanbul,“ referring march by Hizb ut-Tahrir, an international pan-İslamic political organization, for ‘caliphate’ in ultraconservative Fatih district on Friday. (EKN/BD)
* Photo: Twitter
She became stronger and stronger day by day in spite of all negative speech she has experienced from her family and neighborhood since her childhood and adolescence when she started to discover her body and in spite of despair resulted from these.
After she learned that gender-change surgery was covered by Social Security Institution (SSI), Mira tried to search for solution because no state hospital favored that surgery. She started a campaign on indiegogo she called “my rebirth” and needs your support.
Mira says “A biologically woman doesn’t introduce herself saying ‘I’m a biologically woman’ and I don’t want to introduce myself as transsexual Mira, just as Mira. She added Mira means ‘destiny’ in Greek and she would change her destiny.
Let Mira speak…
To support Mira, please click.
"When I was a child I knew I was different"
When did you first realize that you were a transsexual?
After the speaking, perception stages etc. like all people who have biological sexes… when I was 3, I was being like a little girl. Until I was in primary school I thought I had the same sex with my sister. When I started to communicate with people, I realized I was different. I never accepted that I was a boy.
How did you reveal yourself to your family and friends?
Boys didn’t want to play with me. I wasn’t interested in football or boyish conversations. I was boring for them. I used to play with my sister’s dolls. My mom saw me but she didn’t say anything. However, they reacted “Are you a girl to play with dolls?” when I was bigger. I didn’t know anything about transsexuality. Firstly I revealed myself to my mom. She commented it could be easier for her if I had said I was transsexual. I didn’t change at all. The only change is my age. I’m a grown up woman now.
Have you had difficulties in school life?
It was so hard in High School. I behaved as if I was heterosexual lest they called me faggot or queer. I got along with girls so I didn’t face so much discrimination. I attend Faculty of Literature now. It is a relatively relaxed department. At the beginning of the university, I had difficulties about gender divided lavatories and my female name but my lecturers call me Mira and I use Ladies’ room now.
"State hospitals don't favour gender-change surgery"
How did you decide to start a campaign?
I was working part time because I’m a university student and I couldn’t receive a bank credit. It would take years to save that amount of money and I couldn’t bear to live like that. I started the campaign with the help of a friend of mine.
Did you have to make sacrifice after the campaign started?
ECHR decided that Turkey violated the European Convention of Human Rights’ article related to the case and fined Turkey 3 thousand Euro as damages for mental anguish.
Mines were planted “against PKK”
Ercan Bozkurt and his two brothers climbed on a hill near a gendarmerie station in Bitlis province to pick up weeds for their animals on November 10, 2000. Animal-drawn carriage stepped on a mine and exploded. Bozkurt was severely injured. His legs were amputated.
Gendarmerie took the statements of Bozkurt, his brothers and five forest rangers as witnesses and wrote that aforementioned mines were planted against PKK because the hill near gendarmerie station was being attacked all the time and moreover, the hill was used for monitoring and detection reasons.
Ercan Bozkurt, 24-year-old back then, said he visited that hill all the time but he didn’t know there was mine.
Bozkurt made an allegation but the case dropped due to prescription on January 2014. Ercan Bozkurt appealed to ECHR and the case was concluded yesterday.
10,000 land mine victims
According to the A Turkey Without Land Mines Initiative [Mayınsız Bir Türkiye Girişimi], there are 1,101,389 mines in Turkey with 839,000 anti-personnel land mines and 164,797 anti-tank mines. The amount of other war-leftover explosives is unknown.
There are estimably over 10,000 mine victims in Turkey. (AS/BD)
Click here to read this article in Turkish
A member of Kobani Canton Health Coordination and a doctor who is responsible for Kobani’s hospitals, Dr. Hikmet Ehmed said “Civilians died or got injured including women and children. We send severely injured ones to Turkey,” to BBC Turkish.
YPG uniformed ISIS militants
General Commandant: “ISIS came from Turkish border”
Burkan al Firat Forces’ General Commandant claimed that ISIS came from Turkish border and militants attacked with car bombs near border gates.
He added conflict kept going and ISIS militants raked civilians on sight. General Commandant told they announced people not to go outside.
HDK Co-Spokesperson Tuncel: We need an explanation
Peoples’ Democratic Congress (HDK) Co-Spokesperson and former Peoples’ Democratic Party (HDP) İstanbul deputy Sebahat Tuncel:
“It’s not acceptable for Daesh to cross border of Turkey. We need an explanation from PM Ahmer Davutoğlu and the President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan. Justice and Development Party (AKP) will create a base for war since it supports Daesh. It is not a matter of Rojava, it also interests Turkey.”
Official declaration from Governorship of Urfa province
Governorship of Urfa province made a written statement and denied that ISIS militants sneaked into Kobani from Turkish border. (AS/BD)
Click here to read this article in Turkish
On behalf of news website, Editor-in-Chief Yalçın Eriş was suited for libel.
“Good conduct abatement” for five days
Mehmet Ümit Erdem, lawyer of Banu Aşçı stated it was evident there was an offense of libel. The trial took place at İstanbul Anatolia 49th Criminal Court of First Instance.
Teknail Özderyol, lawyer of Yalçın Eriş, demanded acquittal of his client.
What happened?
Confederation of Progressive Trade Unions of Turkey (DİSK) members wanted to make a press statement in Gezi Park on April 21 since gathering in Taksim Square was banned for May Day in İstanbul.
According to the news of Esra Yazdış Demir from Turkish Newspaper Habertürk, a suggestion in party caucus related to a parliamentary group specific to women was made yesterday by HDP deputies.
Pervin Buldan told bianet:
“This parliamentary group will be formed virtually not officially. You know that HDP has 32 female deputies in the parliament and we think these women can hold party group meetings and utilize from meeting room if necessary. We negotiate over this suggestion.
Prime Minister and AKP Leader Ahmet Davutoğlu officially announced the nomination of Yılmaz.
Election of Speaker will be held next week
Speaker of 25th Term Parliament will be elected on June 30. If a majority isn’t constituted, another election will be held on July 1.
Election will be held via secret ballots.
Peoples’ Democratic Party (HDP)nominated Dengir Mir Mehmet Fırat who is a deputy of Mersin province as Speaker.
Nationalist Movement Party (MHP) nominated İstanbul deputy Ekmeleddin İhsanoğlu and Republican People’s Party (CHP) nominated Deniz Baykal, former CHP Leader who is a deputy of Antalya province now.
Who is İsmet Yılmaz?
İsmet Yılmaz was born in Gürün, Sivas Province on December 10, 1962.
He studied mechanical engineering at the School of Maritime in Istanbul Technical University, graduating in 1982 with a bachelor's degree. İsmet Yılmaz received a Doctor of Law degree from the Institute of Social Sciences at Ankara University.
At least four protesters were injured and taken to hospital while at least two activists were injured by plastic bullet fired by police.
A transsexual male had a broken ribcage and his rib got infected after that.
Another transsexual male received a heavy blow in his head and was hospitalized.
A male had his leg broken and a female was hit heavily in the head.
Perpetrators in Tophane attacked activists and beat them. One of the perpetrator had his little daughter beside him according to activists.
Republican People’s Party's (CHP) İstanbul Deputy Mahmut Tanal had his leg injured during police attack. Photo journalists were attacked by TOMA (riot control vehicle) and kicked by the police. Gay journalist Yıldız Tar from bianet was also battered by police. Even though Tar requested police not to touch them, he got an answer from them “We don’t touch people like you,” referring his sexual orientation.
Woman and LGBTI Editor of bianet, Çiçek Tahaoğlu, was disrupted by police since she and journalist Yıldız Tar wanted to take photos of police intervention.
Students Youth Union (Genç-Sen) had set up a stand for summer camp in İstiklal Avenue. Police detained three members of Genç-Sen due to jingle of Union claiming they were insulting the President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan.
Governorship of İstanbul stated any injury case had not been reported to their health institutions. Deputy Police Commissioner said, “The police don’t beat journalists.”
Sedat Z. and İlker U. were accused of “violating privacy of public officials’ communication” and “political and military espionage” in Ankara 7th High Criminal Court.
The Courthouse released Mehmet Y., Zeki B. and Hasan P.
What is “Bugging device case”?
Anti-Terror Branch Office of Ankara launched an investigation against “espionage” and former Chief of President’s Bodyguards Zeki B, former Prime Ministry Department of Guarding and Police Commissioner Mehmet Y. and other 12 policemen were detained.
It was stated that Serhat D. who was one of the defendants and also former police commissioner was abroad.
Public Prosecutor of Ankara, Durak Çetin, prepared the accusation. According to the accusation, defendants allegedly spied on former PM Recep Tayyip Erdoğan, recorded his communications without permission and violated the privacy of communication. (EA/BD)
Click here to read this article in Turkish
Ferhat Encü told bianet:
“What do they want from Roboski?"
“Roboski people who responded to troops massed along the border were fired gas bomb by military services. Soldiers broke into houses and battered women, detained four people and insulted people. A citizen was injured and the vehicle carrying him had an accident. When soldiers departed, everything calmed down.”
“In this morning at 5 o’clock, without a warning, soldiers opened fire and killed villagers’ five mules. If people had been outside at that moment, they would have been killed.”
“I cannot comprehend this savageness. What do they want from Roboski? We have been struggling for four years in Roboski. We came across only war policy, revenge policy. It not only concerns Kurds but all humanity.”
“People haven’t life safety. They are afraid to go outside.”
“I had called District Governor of Roboski yesterday and told people could get harmed but District Governor answered that military men weren’t against the law. He is totally ineffective. Governor of Şırnak issued the command and Şırnak’s Division Commander fulfilled the order.”
Governorship: It’ll continue
Offender came in front of the additional building located in Ankara and then opened fire with a pump rifle.
545 deputies participated in 1st round.
Results are:
İsmet Yılmaz: 256
Deniz Baykal: 125
Ekmeleddin İhsanoğlu: 81
Dengir Mir Mehmet Fırat: 81
There were two invalid votes in election of Speaker and five deputies didn’t cast their ballots. Deputies Mustafa Yer and Ekrem Erdem from Justice and Development Party (AKP) which has 258 deputies in the parliament didn’t participate in election due to having an excuse. Nationalist Movement Party (MHP) and Peoples’ Democratic Party (HDP), each has 80 deputies in parliament took one more vote than their chair numbers.
545 deputies participated in 2nd round.
İsmet Yılmaz: 256
Deniz Baykal: 128
Ekmeleddin İhsanoğlu: 80
Dengir Mir Mehmet Fırat: 80
Invalid vote: 1
Blank Vote: None
3rd round is on July 1
AKP Sivas province Deputy İsmet Yılmaz, Republican People’s Party (CHP) Antalya province Deputy Deniz Baykal, MHP İstanbul Deputy Ekmeleddin İhsanoğlu and HDP Mersin Deputy Dengir Mir Mehmet Fırat were nominated as Speaker.
In the second round a majority (number 367) wasn’t constituted. Third round will be held on July 1.
Unless a majority is constituted even in third round, a fourth round will be held the very day. Member of Parliament who will take most of the votes will be elected as Speaker. (NV/BD)
Click here to read this article in Turkish
Co-Chairmanship of Democratic Union Party (PYD) in Syria made a written statement and stressed that Turkey should give up threatening and intervening in Syria.
“We function as an example of resolution”
According to the news of Channel IMC of Turkey, PYD stated:
“After Turkey’s government officials threatened us, Turkish troops were massed along the Syrian border. We’d like to inform our nation and world public opinion.
“We always obey the universal laws as being a political part of Democratic Autonomy Government. We respect borders between states and neighborhoods and we behave according to the universal agreements.
“We don’t aim to found an independent state. The President of Turkey doesn’t speak truly. The right thing is to improve Democratic Autonomy Government and we function as an example of resolution in Syrian war. Democratic Autonomy Government is a system which includes all nations, religions and beliefs. These are our domestic affairs. Neighboring countries don’t have the right to meddle in our domestic affairs.
“Turkey and Syria have mutual war partners”
“As being PYD and Democratic Autonomy Government, we’d like to state: we don’t aim to meddle in our neighboring countries’ internal affairs. We believe that intervening in Syria means opposing United Nations’ agreements and unsettling neighborhood.
“We fight against terrorism in accordance with international treaties and universal laws. Turkey and Syria have some mutual war partners. If Turkey attacks in Rojava (a de facto autonomous region in northern and north-eastern Syria) to People’s Protection Units (YPG), it will serve as a help to terrorist forces.
“Intervention complicates things”
“Military operation in Rojava will greatly affect both region and states near it and the intervention will complicate things in Syria and Middle East politically and break down international security. We hope that Turkey, NATO states, the U.S.A. and France don’t allow Turkey to intervene in Rojava and in a specific part of Syria.
“YPG forces and its allies defended Rojava against dictatorship and terrorists and paid a price. We are ready now for any attack.
“We demand a democratic system for a united Syria and its peoples. We want pleasant relations with our neighbors. We are against terrorism. We call for Turkish officials to give up provocative policy.”
Turkey’s red lines
According to the news of Turkish Milliyet Daily Newspaper, National Security Council (MGK) of Turkey decided PYD’s military operation to Jarabulus as “violation of a red line” and Turkish army could be mobilized without orders. Military operation in Northern Idlib (a city in northwestern Syria) and making hundreds of thousands to migrate will be called “violation of a red line”. In these circumstances, Turkish army can be mobilized without orders. (EKN/BD)
Click here to read this article in Turkish
Who is İsmet Yılmaz?
He studied mechanical engineering at the School of Maritime in Istanbul Technical University, graduating in 1982 with a bachelor's degree. İsmet Yılmaz received a Doctor of Law degree from the Institute of Social Sciences at Ankara University.
He entered politics by the AK Party, and became deputy of Sivas Province following the 2011 general elections. On July 6, 2011, Yılmaz was appointed Minister of National Defence in the Cabinet Erdoğan III.
How was İsmet Yılmaz elected?
AKP Sivas province Deputy İsmet Yılmaz, Republican People’s Party (CHP) Antalya province Deputy Deniz Baykal, Nationalist Movement Party (MHP) İstanbul Deputy Ekmeleddin İhsanoğlu and Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) Mersin Deputy Dengir Mir Mehmet Fırat were nominated as Speaker.
Some of the main streets and avenues of Sivas will be closed to traffic due to commemoration. Alevi Organizations and many non-governmental organizations will gather in front of former Belediye Street, once Otel Madımak was located in and a commemoration ceremony will be held.
Vice Chairman of Republican People’s Party (CHP) Veli Ağbaba and CHP Leader Kemal Kılıçdaroğlu announced they would participate in commemoration with other 60 deputies.
Co-Chair Figen Yüksekdağ of Peoples’ Democratic Party (HDP) made a written statement and noticed she and a group of deputies from HDP would attend ceremony.
What happened in Case Sivas Massacre?
124 people were arrested related to Sivas Massacre. During a seven-year trial period, 33 people received a death sentence and 85 defendants were handed down prison sentences of between 2 and 15 years.
37 defendants were acquitted. Sentences of 33 defendants were converted into aggravated life sentences.
In November 2004, the Ankara 11th High Criminal Court released nine convicts according to the new Turkish Criminal Law who had previously been sentenced to imprisonment of 7.5 years each under allegations of "attempting to change the constitutional order by force".
Another three convicts of the Sivas trial were released before by benefiting from provisions of the Turkish Criminal Law applied in their favor.
On March 13, 2012 defendants Cafer Erçakmak and Yılmaz Bağ died and their cases were dropped; cases of Şevket Erdoğan, Köksal Koçak, İhsan Çakmak, Hakan Karaca and Necmi Karaömeroğlu were prescribed.
The Case Sivas Massacre which left 33 intellectuals, two hotel employees and two perpetrators dead, in spite of the remaining five defendants was dropped by Court Board due to prescription.
HDP Co-Chair Selahattin Demirtaş said: “We casted 50 votes for Deniz Baykal, candidate from CHP. We wish the best for MHP.
CHP Spokesperson Haluk Koç told:
"İsmet Yılmaz was elected as New Turkish Parliamentary Speaker. Congratulations! We hope that this time Speaker will obey the rules contrary to former Speaker who behaved under tutelage.
8 provinces in Black Sea Region; Samsun, Bayburt, Giresun, Gümüşhane, Ordu, Rize, Trabzon and Artvin are expected to be linked via 2,600 kilometers-length road in order to improve tourism in the area.
People in Çamlıhemşin district of Rize province reacted to heavy equipment of project before and after they heard heavy machineries were coming, Rize people gathered and played horon (a group of a circle folk dances from the Black Sea region of Turkey) as a protest against the project.
"They’ll build cities along 3000 meters"
Lawyer Yakup Okumuşoğlu told bianet:
“They’ll build cities along 3000 meters.You know, there is Blue Voyage in Aegean and Mediterranean Sea of Turkey. Now, they want to make Green Voyage in Black Sea Region. They want to build 40 tourism facilities in 40 plateaus. People know what happened in Ayder Plateau and Uzungöl (Long Lake); they are totally concrete and lost their natural beauty. Now they set their sights on Fırtına Valley.
"There is no reason for these roads to be built because they already have their natural paths. Valleys will look like gas stations if the roads are built. Under the name of “tourism” will cause people abandon their valleys and plateaus on which they live.”
2 lawsuits were filed against Green Road Project
Lawyer Okumuşoğlu, on behalf of Fırtına Initiative and Lawyers for the Environment and Ecology Movement (ÇEHAV) stated:
“They want to escape from Environmental Impact Assessment Report (ÇED). We filed two lawsuits already against these projects.
“Kavrun Plateau and Samistral Valleys are parts of natural protected area and national park. This road cannot be built without protective construction plan. These places are pasture areas. If they build the road, wild animals and domestic animals will have difficulty to feed.
Danzikyan: Agos uncovered Turkey’s history
Yetvart Danzikyan, Editor-in-Chief of Agos, told bianet:
“When I look at a century before, there was no newspaper who hit 1000th issue. In the past, two million people published a newspaper, now 60,000 people publish it. It is so meaningful and crucial for Armenians to publish 1000th issue of a newspaper with such a great effort.
“Throughout history of press in Turkey, a lot of news were reported. However, Agos literally uncovered Turkey’s history and paid a price but gained a seat in history of the Republic of Turkey.
“Agos, revealed many secrets of the country with the management of Hrant Dink and gained a seat in the history of Republic of Turkey with its unique contributions to normalization.”
It was reminded during the press statement that Abdullah Öcalan would call for PKK to convene in order to keep democratic struggle instead of armed struggle.
Also, it was indicated that Dolmabahçe Summit was a first step throughout the history of Republic of Turkey to cease all social conflicts with peace and democracy which look good on our peoples.
The President Erdoğan's attitude
Headlines from the statement:
* The President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan’s attitude that ignores resolution process, finds Dolmabahçe Summit wrong, doesn’t recognize İmralı Delegation and finally his sentences like ‘there is no Kurdish problem’ create a great blockage.
* After the general elections, provocations in Diyarbakır province showed an anti-peace attitude.
Rojava-Syria centered war threats
* Rojava-Syria centered war threats in the region, military operations are great warnings within the context of resolution process.
* Justice and Development Party (AKP) sees Resolution Process and Coalition Process as a simple matter of negotiation using warmongering speech. It sets off alarm bells for our democratic future and social peace.
HDP believes in peace
* As being Peoples’ Democratic Party’s (HDP) İmralı Delegation we’d like to inform public opinion that we still believe resolution process will result in peace by prioritizing democratic policy.
* It is the most important and urgent matter that obstacles should be removed to negotiate with the PKK Leader Abdullah Öcalan in his prison, İmralı Island and to put an end his isolation.
* Whichever political party comes to power, resolution process should be a state policy of the new government and ceasefire should continue. We believe in that.
Peace Conference will be conducted
* Peaceful diplomatic attempts enabling peoples to live together equally in peace in both internal and external policy should be concentrated on. We’d like to inform public opinion that as being İmralı Delegation we are ready for a political move since government and state institutions are worrisome related to the subject.
39th Session of the World Heritage Committee of UNESCO which was held on June 28 in Germany took the vote. House of Virgin Mary, Ayasuluk Fortress and Çukuriçi Höyük (mound in the pit) also were included in the list. Pergamon and its Multi-Layered Cultural Landscape had joined the heritage list from İzmir province last year.
In a list with 31 candidates, Turkey’s two historical sites entered for UNESCO's World Heritage List, this year. Now, Turkey’s 15 historical places are included in the list.
Ephesus
Which sites from Turkey are included in the list?
Göreme National Park and the Rock Sites of Cappadocia
Great Mosque and Hospital of Divriği
Xanthos-Letoon
City of Safranbolu
Archaeological Site of Troy
Selimiye Mosque and its Social Complex
Neolithic Site of Çatalhöyük
Bursa and Cumalıkızık: the Birth of the Ottoman Empire
Pergamon and its Multi-Layered Cultural Landscape
According to report of Worker Health and Work Security Assembly, at least 794 workers died in the first half of 2015.
227 laborers were killed in car/shuttle accidents while 168 workers died in the field of agriculture and forestry according to the report.
Seasonal workers hit the road when spring comes but in the beginning of the road, death awaits them.
Last traffic accident is an example of it. 15 seasonal workers, 13 women amongst them, hit the road to pick grapes in Salihli district of Manisa province.
A van carrying seasonal workers collided with milk tank at 5.30 a.m. 15 workers were killed in the accident while 2 people were injured.
Dead bodies of 15 workers were taken to Gölmarmara State Hospital and Akhisar State Hospital.
It was determined that milk tank caused the accident.
It was pointed that Romani people couldn’t be integrated into the society due to social and economic problems and historical prejudices, particularly. Deputies drew attention that Romani people were the most disadvantaged fraction of the society.
Not enough to erase poverty
It was stated that Romani people faced ‘social isolation’ and a comprehensive research was necessary for Romani people to participate in social life with the help of legal transformations and practical approach.
"Social isolation means not being able to participate actively in society and to reach social and cultural source and means finally disengagement with the society. One of the main reason is economic inequality. However, it is not enough to erase ‘poverty’ due to it is a multilayer problem.
"A comprehensive research is necessary for Romani people to participate in social life with the help of legal transformations and practical approach.”
In the first six months of 2015, men killed 141 women, raped 58 women, forced 121 women to prostitution, injured 193 women and sexually harassed 145 women.
Murder
Men killed 21 women and 6 children and 4 men near them in June 2015.
* Two men stabbed their wives while they were asleep. One of the perpetrators said he killed his wife since she didn’t bring a glass of water to him.
* One of the perpetrators who beat his previous wife to death but went unpunished gave himself over to the police.
* A man killed his wife and four relatives. He had threatened the family before but any precaution wasn’t taken.
38% of women were killed by their husbands, 14% of them were killed by their daughters’ partners; Perpetrators were identified as follows: husband (9), religiously-wed husband (1), relative (3), son-in-law (2), acquaintance (1), lover (2), neighbor (1), son (1) and stranger (1).
Following the incidents, 33% of the murderers surrendered.
A woman was killed due to divorce claim.
Murder cases were reported in the following cities: Adana, Adıyaman, Ankara, Antalya (2), Antep, Balıkesir, Bolu, Bursa (2), Çorum, Hatay, Karaman (2), Kocaeli, Malatya (2), Manisa and Muğla (3).
Rape
In January, In January, men raped 9 women. 18 women were also forced to prostitution.
* 78% of the women were raped by acquaintances.
* In Antalya province, a public official tried to rape a women in her home.
* A man forced his wife to prostitution.
Rape perpetrators were identified as lover (3), father (1), friend (2), employer (1), public official (1) and strangers (2).
44% of the rape venues were apartments. Rape venue were listed as apartment (4), workplace (1), street (1) and woods (2). A rape venue wasn’t included on the media.
14 men were arrested for raping.
Rape cases were reported in the following cities: Ankara, Antalya, Balıkesir, Bolu, Bursa, Kocaeli, Sakarya, Samsun and Sinop.
In provinces like Adana (2), Bursa (14) and Denizli (2), 20 men were arrested for forcing women to prostitution and 27 men were released under probation and judicial control decision.
Battery-assault
In June, men battered 25 women.
12% of women were subjected to male violence and severely injured by lethal weapons due to divorce claim or breaking up.
* A man severely injured his wife who made a complaint 20 times about him by knife. Perpetrator went to his wife’s apartment and cut off the electricity in spite of temporary debarment.
* A man quarreled with his girlfriend and tortured her cat.
* A woman was battered after she wanted to take her child who was tortured by father to hospital.
* A man who stabbed his mother battered his wife with chain.
* A man battered his wife after she attended a social organization related to teenager girls in order to make them read and write instead of marrying at a very early age.
* After a woman was battered severely by her husband she settled down in a women’s shelter. However, Mayor “reunited” them and now the woman lives on the streets.
12% of male violence cases occurred in spite of complaints made by women and temporary debarment.
Battery/Assault cases were reported in the following cities in June: Adana (3), Adıyaman (2), Aksaray, Bingöl, Bolu, Çorum (2), Erzurum, İstanbul (5), İzmir (2), Karaman, Kocaeli (2), Maraş, Muğla (2) and Van.
Harassment
In June, 16 sexual harassment cases appeared on the media across Turkey. Also, two female lawyers were threatened by perpetrators of the cases they ruled.
* Two harassers were teachers and two other ones were policemen.
* A police officer who works as children police in Diyarbakır province sexually harassed a teenager girl who came to him to complain about a truck driver who harassed her. Police officer is still on duty.
28% of the harassment cases were physical abuse while other 28% of them were occurred as exhibitionism. 7 women were physically abused while a women was verbally abused. 7 women were exposed to exhibitionist on the street while a woman was peeped in a shopping mall.
Sexual harassment incidents were reported in the following cities: Adana, Balıkesir (3), Diyarbakır, Düzce, Edirne (6), Muğla, Ordu, Samsun and Zonguldak.
Two female lawyers were threatened in Mersin and Bursa provinces.
Regional distribution
In June 2015, 91 cases of male violence, murder, attempted murder, harassment, sexual violence, rape and battery were reported.
According to the news of İsmail Saymaz, supervisors from Social Security Institution Provincial Directorate of Denizli came to the apartment of H.A., a woman divorced from her husband five years before, and asked doorkeeper, “Does H.A take men home?”
SGK explained that they tried to prevent women receiving salary since they divorced from their husbands but they were still living together with their husbands in order to get money from the state.
Upon her privacy was violated, H.A. filed a claim for compensation against SGK. H.A. stated that SGK attacked her personal rights by questioning her private life and so, doorkeeper and her neighbors were left with false impression about her.
Administrative Court of Denizli province ruled that SGK should pay 10 thousand Turkish liras to H.A. as damages for mental anguish. (ÇT/BD)
Click here to read this article in Turkish
Plaintiff was the President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan. The defamation case was tried by İstanbul 2nd Criminal Court of First Instance.
Journalist Barış İnce was absolved from cases presented by the President Erdoğan’s children Sümeyye Erdoğan, Bilal Erdoğan, Esra Erdoğan Albayrak and Erdoğan’s son-in-law Berat Albayrak.
Turkish Parliamentary Speaker, İsmet Yılmaz, acknowledged the suggestion of 18 members to be included in Board of Spokespersons.
According to TBMM’s internal regulations, 15 members are present in Board of Spokesperson but the number may be increased upon the demand of Board.
HDP and MHP have equal number of members
MHP demanded a chair more since they received more votes than HDP in general elections and requested the number should be 15.
Process
Political parties will decide their own board members in this process. After that, names of members will be put to vote.
AKP will determine the names of members in next closed-door meeting.
HDP and MHP will inform Speaker’s Office related to the names of members.
“Our aim is to see more cycling women in the streets of İstanbul. The more women cycling the more normal bicycle become because only if women ride bicycles, bicycle can join life,” says Female Cyclists Initiative.
Having mission to make riding bike in daily life possible, initiative says they would like to encourage more women to ride bike in the streets of İstanbul and to create solidarity.
Initiative states that women perceive İstanbul as an unsuitable city to ride bicycle and this situation prevents them from cycling. Initiative wants to change this perception with the help of solidarity.
Female Cyclists Initiative will also prepare a guideline which includes practical information about security for women to ride bicycle from one place to another in easiest way. (ÇT/BD)
Tradesmen in Artvin react to mining by hanging handmade banners.
In Cerattepe region of Artvin, people have been struggling against mining for 20 years.
Cerattepe region is one of the most important regions in Turkey. This region provides drinking water for people. It has Hatina National Park and Kafkasör Tourism Protection and Development Site. 2000 plant species, 124 endemic species and hundreds of animals live in the region.
People living in Cerattepe, Kafkasör Plateau and Mountain Genya which are like a home to one of the richest flora in the world have been struggling against gold, copper and silver mining in the region for years.
On January 5, 2015, positive decision of Environmental Impact Assessment Report (ÇED) related to copper mining project in the region was cancelled. Now, ÇED made a positive decision for the copper mining and telepherique line projects of Özaltın Construction Company subjected to Cengiz Holding owned by Mehmet Cengiz.
Upon the decision was made, people of Artvin have been on duty since June 20. They stopped heavy construction equipment which came to the region before. (NV/BD)
Davutoğlu dated next week for coalition negotiations and added they formed commission for coalition negotiations.
“The President will probably assign me to form a government, today.”
“We function collaboratively. We formed a commission for coalition negotiations in order to be ready without waiting for the President to assign us. Without prejudicing anyone, we worked painstakingly. I’ve got the feedbacks.”
“AKP is ready for snap election”
PM Davutoğlu indicated that they were ready for a snap election during fast breaking meal arranged last evening by AKP’s Youth Branch:
He was born in 1925
Names of deputies in Board of Spokespersons are: Turkish Parliamentary Speaker İsmet Yılmaz; deputy speakers Naci Bostancı (AKP), Koray Aydın (MHP), Şafak Pavey (CHP) and Yurdusev Özsökmenler (HDP); managers Tufan Köse, Sırrı Süreyya Önder, Seyfettin Yılmaz, Salim Uslu and Ahmet Gündoğdu; secretary members Emre Köprülü, Gülizar Biçer Karaca, Emin Çınar, Erol Dora, Bülent Turan, Sema Kırcı, Fehmi Küpçü and Mücahit Durmuşoğlu.
In İstanbul, Anti-terror Branch team made an operation this morning and detained 30 people. According to the news, 30 people were members of Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS).
“Detainees provide logistic support by aiding and abetting terrorist organization and organizing to send forces to Iraq and Syria for people who come from European countries to join ISIS,” was claimed according to the news of Çetin Aydın from Hürriyet Daily News.
Detainees underwent a medical examination in İstanbul Haseki Education and Research Hospital. Defendants were taken to the General Directorate of Security in İstanbul.
“Steve Kaczynski has written petitions so many times for the problem to be solved and seen management of the prison but he started to go on hunger strike since he didn’t have any result,” said lawyer Güçlü Sevimli.
His family wasn’t informed
Brian Kaczynski said:
“We learned my brother was arrested from newspaper in Scotland. They said he was a terrorist. Even they claimed he was working for England and Germany intelligence service. Steve was born in 1963 in Edinburgh, Scotland. Our father is American, our mother is Scottish. Steve attended Edinburgh University Department of German and Russian Language. He speaks five languages. He is an international socialist and idealist. He wasn’t arrested or detained before. It is very nonsense to call him an agent. You cannot image him to be connected with a terrorist organization”
“Wrong place at the wrong time”
Steve Kaczynski was charged with being a member of terrorist organization in raid carried out in İstanbul İdil Culture Center where he came for a symposium on April 2, 2015. He was asked why he was in Turkey. His objections were declined.
He is kept in a cell all alone now. He breathes fresh air for an hour in company with guardians throughout the day
“My brother was in the wrong place in the wrong time,” said Brian Kaczynski.
“We are worried about his health and security. We don’t know the accusations made against him. His trial date is uncertain.”
No answer to Scottish Parliament
Brian Kaczynski told he came to Turkey to get information about his brother.
“I and our lawyer in Britain couldn’t understand why Steve has been kept in prison for four months without a trial or accusation.”
Situation of Kaczynski has been submitted to Scottish Parliament. Parliament asked why Steve Kaczynski has been kept in prison for four months to Republic of Turkey Ministry of Justice. However, Turkey didn’t give any answer.
Prison guardian measures Steve’s tension
“He isn’t under physician supervision, prison guardians measure his tension,” said Lawyer Demir.
Kaczynski couldn’t take his Vitamin B pills.
“Communist-fascist ideology” ban
Lawyer Dağ told:
“We saw Prison Warden on July 3. We reminded him Kaczynski’s request was legal but we faced an illegal attitude. Prison Warden said, ‘I cannot allow books criticizing the state in prison. I cannot let communist-fascist ideology books in’.”
“As being lawyers, we tried to tell the books weren’t forbidden and they also came from other F-Type Prisons after being read by inmates and Steve’s request wasn’t illegal and against the law. He just told us to go and take legal action.
Reminding many channels like A Haber (News A) were fined during election period, Ahmet Davutoğlu said he was principally against all bans.
Vice President of MHP, Semih Yalçın, made a written statement yesterday “MHP Kayseri province deputy Yusuf Halaçoğlu is unseated as required from his position as Group Deputy Chairman.”
“It was considered appropriate. No hard feelings. It is not important for me to be resentful or not,” said Halaçoğlu.
Halaçoğlu’s position is vacancy now.
What happened?
It was claimed that if MHP had supported Republican People’s Party during the election of Parliamentary Speaker , people would have pushed them too far by saying they chose an irreligious party to support.
MHP Leader Devlet Bahçeli responded via his twitter account “Everybody can believe in anything in any way he wants. If one cannot master his words, his words captivate him.”
Vice President of MHP Oktay Vural told “We don’t agree with Halaçoğlu. He doesn’t represent the opinions of Nationalist Movement Party.”
Click here to read the article in Turkish
“We understand from the statement of KCK that there should be a mutual ceasefire. Violating military operations should be stopped, otherwise there will be counterattack.
Resolution Process
Selahattin Demirtaş answered the questions of journalists:
“We follow the process. This is the tensest period in two years and a half. We always think that resolution process should resume on.
“However, we are not the ones who say there is no resolution process, no Kurdish problem. The President of Republic of Turkey said that. We don’t decide there is a resolution process and ceasefire or not as HDP.”
Ardahan province
Demirtaş stated that media differently reflected incidents which caused a death of a person in Ardahan province, in the north-east of Turkey.
“We know that mainstream media differently reflected the incident in Ardahan. We will see the reports. Our party members are seeing families in Ardahan.
“There is certain evidence that military forces opened fire firstly. We will share this information.”
İmralı Island
“İmralı is an isolation island in the sea of Marmara. PKK Leader Abdullah Öcalan see people in a limited time in visiting days and you call that as ‘negotiation’. It can’t be.
“I suppose Abdullah öcalan will contribute a great deal to the resolution process.
“HDP delegation is not enough. A negation process should start with confidence.”
RTÜK
In the morning, a group of workers from Genel-İş wanted to make a statement in front of DİSK’s headquarters in Şişli district of İstanbul related to strike of Baydak who chained up the building and was on strike in a tent for a week.
An uproar broke out between DİSK Chairman Kani Beko, trades union members and Oya Baydak and her supporters from Revolutionary Workers’ Movement. Oya Baydak fell to the ground among the fight. Genel-İş members removed chains from the building’s door.
"During the fight, Istanbul provincial Branch Manager, Lawyer Diren Yeşil, was hit in the head by a piece of wood. Our member, lawyer Özgür Yılmaz, was battered,” said Contemporary Lawyers' Association.
“She refused to make tea or coffee”
DİSK indicated that Baydak was dismissed because she refused to make tea or coffee.
Baydak denied in a written statement:
“All along my life, I am motivated by class consciousness and revolutionary understanding. I even welcomed and invited other janitors and workers to drink tea.”
Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoğlu, four members of Justice and Development Party (AKP), Republican People’s Party (CHP) Leader Kemal Kılıçdaroğlu and four members of CHP came together for coalition negotiations, today.
Meeting started at 14:15 in CHP Headquarters and went on for an hour and forty minutes.
During the coalition negotiations between AKP and CHP, Rasim Bölücek who is Political Chief Advisor of Kılıçdaroğlu and AKP Ankara deputy Mücahit Aslan also were invited to the meeting.
Names included in AKP’s coalition delegation: Ömer Çelik, Numan Kurtulmuş, Cevdet Yılmaz, Ayşenur Bahçekapılı, Mücahit Aslan.
Names included in CHP’s coalition delegation: Haluk Koç, Selin Sayek Böke, Faik Öztrak, Akif Hamzaçebi, Rasim Bölücek.
Helmet numbers of policemen were sent to prosecution.
Medical reports were taken.
Detailed description of complainants were added into the complaint petition.
Prosecutor: No torture, just deliberately injuring
Prosecutor İrfan Sarıcı told there was no need for a trial because battering of complainants was deliberately injuring not a torturing and accusations from complainants like battery, insult, sexual harassment and misconduct were just abstract claims.
“Police officers’ statements were placed reliance in”
Lawyer Alper Can Aykaç told bianet:
“Prosecution didn’t make investigation even though policemen could be identified and their commanders weren’t investigated.
“Policemen just denied the crime. The evidence against the police officers was ignored and their statements were placed reliance in by the prosecutor without researching.
The verdict of non-prosecution was objected.
Ankara Bar Association stated they would follow the process.
Battery, insult, sexual harassment…
In Eskişehir province, during Gezi Park Resistance, two days before Ali İsmail Korkmaz (one of the prominent figures who lost their lives during Gezi Park Resistance) was beaten to death by the police, police battered and detained 30 people on June 1, 2013. Police put them in handcuffs and continued to beat and insult. Police also sexually harassed female lawyers among them, used tear gas and water cannon on them and threatened people to death. (AS/BD)
Click here to read the article in Turkish
HDP stated that when 10% election threshold was abolished, all fractions of society and political groups would join country’s willpower without an anti-democratic obstacle.
HDP Group Deputy Chairpersons Pervin Buldan and İdris Baluken stated:
"Not political stability but authoritarianism"
“Some social groups cannot enter parliament since election threshold is high, so these social groups’ economic, cultural or political requests cannot be represented in parliament.
“In an era when social struggles keep up with democratization, not to improve democratization results in authoritarianism instead of political stability.
“That’s a truth that in every point of the world, democracy and collaborate requests are increasing. Political stability is not in the hand of one political view and social diversity is only provided with democratic ruling.
“The highest election threshold is in Turkey”
“Some countries with proportional representation have election threshold and it varies between 1% and 5%. In Germany it is 5%, in Austria it is 4%, in Holland it is 0.67% and in Italy it is 4%. In Turkey, election threshold is 10%.
“Turkey had election threshold in 1961 for the first time. After 1980 coup d’etat, it was decided that if political parties couldn’t pass 10% threshold, they couldn’t have deputies in parliament.
“53% wasn’t represented”
“In 2012 elections, 19 political parties entered elections but only two of them entered parliament. Distribution of the total votes was 47%. In order words, 53% of the voters wasn’t represented.
“Election threshold blunts trust in democratic system and gives chance for some certain political group to rule the country and her institutions.
“Democratization of democracy”
“Firstly, election threshold should be abolished if we want to rely on democratization of democracy.
Upon the case presented by Chamber of Architects, Artillery Barracks Project (Topçu Kışlası Projesi in Turkish) had been cancelled.
6th Department of State Council, approved the decision on March 29, 2014.
According to the news of Alican Uludağ from Cumhuriyet Daily, İstanbul Metropolitan Municipality appealed to 6th Department of State Council and requested revision of decision.
6th Department of State Council accepted the request and stressed that an expert examining was needed and İstanbul 6th Administrative Court should give a new verdict.
Lawyer Atalay: This decision was made under pressure
Chamber of Architects’ Lawyer Can Atalay told bianet:
“State Council had approved the decision of Administrative Court. This kind of revision of decision request cannot be. Some exceptional cases are needed for it. For example a false document or something. However, State Council didn’t think over these. Now, we will wait and see what 1st Administrative Court will do.”
What’s the other verdict?
If Administrative Court doesn’t insist on its decision, another local court’s decision will be expected.
Lawyer Can Atalay said Chamber of Architects filed a suit against avant project of Artillery Barracks and judicial process will go on. (NV/BD)
In Village Duru of Diyarbakır, fire broke out due to an unknown reason at 5 p.m. yesterday. Fire grew with the aid of the wind and spread into the forest.
Citizens stopped the fire since fire trucks couldn’t enter the rugged terrain. Local people managed to extinguish the fire after 7 hours with digging tools.
Co-Chair Rezan Zuğurli of Lice Municipality of Diyarbakır, said 1000-decare land was damaged because of fire. Zuğurli added Fire Department and Forestry Operation Directorate teams helped to extinguish the fire but they had difficulties since harsh conditions of the area.
A village was evacuated in Mersin
A fire started in Gülnar district of Mersin yesterday. Village Koçaşlı of 200 was evacuated because a fire broke out at the morning hours in calabrian pine wood near Akkuyu Nuclear Power Plant under construction. 250-hectare forestland was damaged.
Fire in Mount Judi was extinguished on the third day
Fire which started on July 16 in a forestland when a battalion shot artillery to Mount Judi was extinghuished on the third day. According to Anadolu Agency, 100-hectare land was affected and oak trees and 400 pistachio trees were damaged. Co-Chair Seyfettin Ademir of Silopi Municipality of Şırnak province, in Southeastern Turkey, said “5 thousand fruit trees in Herbul, an Assyrian village, were reduced to ash.” (NV/BD)
Photo Credit: Anadolu Agency/Muhsin Taş
Hüseyin Çelik told Cansu Çamlıbel from Hürriyet Daily stated they ‘got better’ with CHP than other political parties:
“It provides 390 deputies and majority as 66%. I think it is sustainable with a good coalition protocol.”
“Party alignments are close to MHP”
“Even though our party alignments imply AKP-Nationalist Movement Party (MHP) coalition can be better, I think coalition with CHP is sustainable. My reason is that political parties sharing close party alignments don’t get along well.”
“We have seen the examples of them. True Path Party (DYP)-Motherland Party (ANAP) coalition was over in the blink of an eye. However, DYP-Social Democratic Populist Party (SHP) coalition continued in spite of some difficulties.”
“There should be tolerance unless a coalition protocol is prepared and a government is formed. I’m actually prudentially optimistic.”
“Party alignments didn’t understand the presidential system”
Hüseyin Çelik answered the questions of journalist Çamlıbel related to mistakes of AKP:
“Some say there is inappropriateness. We should reconsider our deputy names. This is one of the important factors. Some of our party communities may have lulled. Three-term rule is wrong in my opinion, I told this.”
“Our party alignments didn’t understand the presidential system properly and we couldn’t get what we wanted. Also, it caused some worries since some words were perverted.”
“Kobane talks were perverted”
Chief Advisor Çelik interpreted the President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan remarks related to Kobane:
“The President told 'Kobane is falling down' on October 7, 2014 in Gaziantep province, in south-central Turkey. They reflected his remarks as if it was a pleasure, a gladness of Erdoğan to our Kurdish citizens. His remarks were perverted. Actually, the President shared his sadness but they reflected it as a hostility against Kurds in Kobane.”
Resolution process and the election
“4,5% of the AKP’s votes were shifted to Peoples’ Democratic Party (HDP). It results in 9%.”
“Resolution process started with AKP’s willpower. In 2005, we went to Diyarbakır province, in Southeastern Turkey with Recep Tayyip Erdoğan. He said 'Kurdish problem is my problem.' Whenever we make a stride about resolution process, PKK, its extensions and Civil Society Organizations protested it.
“Some people voted for HDP by their own will. Some perceived the PKK Leader Abdullah Öcalan as their leader. Other were threatened and blackmailed. However, our friends may also misspeak. We may have chosen wrong names for deputy list."
Public meetings of the President
Çelik stated AKP lost some of its votes due to public meetings of the President:
An explosion occurred in front of Amara Culture Center in Suruç district of Urfa province, in Southeast of Turkey.
“It is feared from loss of live to increase. 76 injured people are treated in local hospitals. A technical team has been assigned to research in the region. The state will find abominable attackers and put them on trial as soon as possible.”
According to the information given bianet by Federation of Socialist Youth Associations (SGDF), the explosion during the press statement of students before going Kobani to reconstruct the city.
Ambulances were taken to the scene.
Pervin Buldan: They would build parks
Peoples’ Democratic Party (HDP) Group Deputy Chairperson and İstanbul deputy, Previn Buldan, said that young people who were attacked came to visit her in Ankara last week and they planned to go to Kobani to build parks, libraries and even create a memorial forest.
Buldan shared photos of young people and shared this message via her twitter account:
On PM Ahmet Davutoğlu’s say-so, Deputy PM Numan Kurtulmuş, Minister of the Interior Sebahattin Öztürk, Minister of Labor and Social Security Faruk Çelik are going to the scene to research.
Peoples’ Democratic Party (HDP) held an emergency meeting. HDP Vice President Sırrı Süreyya Önder told that all region officials were sent to Suruç district and they tried to create an urgent coordination center.
Politicians and nongovernmental, political organizations made statements related to the explosion which left 30 dead and 76 injured.
Statements from the politicians
HDP Group Deputy Chairperson and İstanbul Deputy Pervin Buldan: “A bloody assault was carried out against young people who were going to go to Kobani from Suruç. They visited me last week in Ankara. They told they would build park, library and create memorial forest in Kobani.”
Republican People’s Party (CHP) Leader Kemal Kılıçdaroğlu: Abominable attack in Suruç district burnt our hearts. It is inexpressible how hard to lose our very young sons. I condemn terror and its supporters.
Deputy PM Yalçın Akdoğan: I condemn ABOMINABLE attack and ATTACKERS in Suruç. These kinds of terrorist attacks against Turkey’s unity and solidarity, tranquility and peace won’t succeed ever. God rest their souls who lost their lives during the explosion and I wish casualties get healthy. We fail these attempts as the state and the nation. No one of the terrorist attacks will bring Turkey to heel and destroy our unity and solidarity. We will let them down with common sense.
HDP Vice President Sırrı Süreyya Önder: We’ve assigned our friends to handle the situation and casualties. Our priority is to take injured people to the hospitals and treat them. It is evident that hospitals in Urfa province are not enough. We are seeing Ministry of Health. There is a shortage of ambulance. We try to inform families of the casualties and public opinion, find out the incident and take due precautions.
Statements from Civil Society Organizations and Political Parties
HDP: Everyone should take his/her precautions
HDP Co-Chairs Figen Yüksekdağ and Selahattin Demirtaş:
“Interim government is obliged to discharge the responsibilities of the citizens to provide security of life and property. Government which massed troops along the border against Democratic Union Party (PYD) should answer for explosion in Suruç. Current government is responsible for all intelligence and security gaps.
Diyarbakır Bar Association: Precautions should have been taken
Bar President Tahir Elçi made a statement on behalf of Diyarbakır Bar Association Administrative Board and reminded bombing attack in HDP election rally on June 5 in Diyarbakır province.
“Precautions should have been taken and same attacks in the region should have been foreseen. Attackers and linked perpetrators should be found and due precautions should be taken by legal and administrative authorities.
ÇGD: Are there ISIS militants in the city or not?
Contemporary Journalists Association (ÇGD):
"A month ago journalists asked Governor of Urfa province, İzzettin Küçük, ‘Are there ISIS militants in the city?’. Governor Küçük was annoyed and made four journalists detained. A massacre was carried out in the same city after a month in front of people and security officials.
"We ask Governor Küçük again:
"Are there ISIS militants in the city or not? How young people were attacked in spite of intelligence and security officials in Urfa? How gangs could freely carry out bombing attack in daytime near Turkey-Syria border?
"Governor İzzettin Küçük who made journalists detained since he didn’t like the questions instead of answering them and informing public opinion, the President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan who increases the tension to launch a military operation against Syria and Justice and Development Party (AKP) government are responsible for this massacre.” (BK/ÇT/BD)
* Photo Credit: Anadolu Agency
"Terror should be condemned whichever way it comes,” Erdoğan said.
Thousands of people came together at 7 p.m. in Galatasaray Square on July 20.
Peoples’ Democratic Party (HDP) deputies; Garo Paylan, Beyza Üstün, Sezai Temelli, Meral Danış Beştaş, Filiz Kerestecioğlu, Hüda Kaya and Republican People’s Party (CHP) deputies Mahmut Tanal and Selina Doğan participated in the march.
“They have been afraid of calling Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS) a terrorist organization for years. Turkey’s ruling party is joint offender of this massacre.
“Those young people wouldn’t have been massacred if they had tried to trespass the border with arms like DAESH. If gunmen freely roam and massacre with arms and bombs, ruling party is responsible for it.
“In Turkey, nobody can move near Turkey-Syria border and near Rojava (a de facto autonomous region in northern and northeastern Syria) without MİT’s knowledge.”
“Hate speech paved the way for it”
HDP Co-Chair Figen Yüksekdağ requested Governor of Urfa province to be dismissed.
“Military operations, massacres and hate speech paved the way for it.
“30 young people fell martyrs during the bombing attack in Suruç district were there to actualize humane willpower which cannot be actualized by political forces in Turkey.
“Governor of Urfa wasn’t dismissed”
“We have told there was a tension in Urfa province for months. Governor of Urfa and law enforcers are responsible for this massacre.
“Governor of Urfa and none of the law enforcers who kept taking part in crime instead of wiping out the offense and tension weren’t dismissed.
“This is not negligence or a security gap. This is a part of a greater plan.”
“Perpetrators are nearby”
“Perpetrators are nearby. Ruling party is responsible for it.
“Young people who only desired peace”
”Instead of fighting against ISIS, Justice and Development Party (AKP) fought against us, people desiring peace and brotherhood.
”Young people who lost their lives in Suruç Explosion only desired peace and brotherhood.
“In a country where peaceful young people are massacred, ruling party is responsible for it.
“Responsible ones of the massacre won’t get away. They will answer to us.
Weapons taken to ISIS
“Governor of Urfa made journalists who asked ‘Are there ISIS militants in the city?’ detained recently.
“If weapons hadn’t been taken to ISIS by trucks, 30 young people would have been alive today.
Bans increased in the cities
In different cities, governorships had banned marching and press statements before and were reacted.
On February 3, 2014, Governorship of Kayseri, a province in Central Anatolia, banned meeting and marching on the trial day of perpetrators of Ali İsmail Korkmaz, a young person beaten to death by the police during Gezi Park Protests.
On December 28, 2014, Governorship of Erzincan, a city in northeastern Turkey, banned press statements, marching, petition and opening stands after two dissident groups’ fighting.
On March 9, 2015, Governorship of İzmir, a city in Aegean region of Turkey, banned all meetings and protests in İzmir after a university student lost his life. (NV/BD)
* Photo Credit: AA/Fırat Özkoyuncu
Demirtaş stated an emergency meeting should be held in Turkey’s parliament and criticized Justice and Development Party (AKP) and its Syria policy:
“Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS) cross the border but toys can’t.”
“Toys and basic needs near them…”
“Those young people came from different cities of Turkey and they would go to Kobani to help children and people.
“They had toys and basic needs near them. They decided to make a press statement in front of Amara Culture Center in Urfa province but they couldn’t go to Kobani.
“ISIS freely roam near the border”
“Trucks carrying weapons crossed Turkey’s border. Army of inhuman rapists, ISIS, freely roams near the border.
“Parliament should convene”
“We called for Turkey’s parliament to hold an emergency meeting. We are ready with our 80 deputies.
“First thing is resolution process. It is easier to keep peace if resolution process comes to a conclusion. Second thing is relationship between Rojava (a de facto autonomous region in northern and northeastern Syria) and Turkey. Third thing is foreign policy and ISIS threats.” (EKN/BD)
Click here to read the article in Turkish
Peoples’ Democratic Party (HDP) called for people to commemorate.
Police detained at least seven people. Young people under age of 18 were among them.
Commemorating in Beşiktaş district
HDP and Peoples’ Democratic Congress (HDK) also commemorated in Beşiktaş district of İstanbul.
The crowd marched from HDP Headquarters in Beşiktaş while the deceased people’s photographs.
SGDF representative Özgür Bedel made a press statement:
““The ones who cannot say a word to ISIS and officials in Ankara who feed ISIS are joint offenders of this atrocity.”
After the press statement, the crowd went to condolence tent in Kadıköy. (AS/BD)
Click here to read the article in Turkish
110 signatures of deputies are needed for emergency meeting in parliament unless Parliamentary Speaker calls for it.
HDP has 80 deputies in Turkey’s parliament. That’s why, 30 deputies’ support is needed for HDP’s call.
Speaker İsmet Yılmaz left the decision to political parties and didn’t interfere.
CHP: We don’t participate in it
According to the news of Radikal Newspaper, HDP Group Deputy Chairpersons met CHP Group Deputy Chairpersons and Speaker.
CHP Group Deputy Chairpersons stated they wouldn’t participate in that attempt.
Officials from HDP indicated that CHP’s attitude contrasted with their general speech and CHP should side with social peace. HDP requested CHP to reconsider but Republican People’s Party gave a negative answer again.
HDP Group Deputy Chairman Baluken: We’ll make an attempt once more
HDP Group Deputy Chairman İdris Baluken criticized CHP via his twitter account:
"We need support of deputies who side with peace. HDP thinks both Justice and Development Party (AKP) and CHP deputies who are anxious about goings-on will support us. We believe there are CHP deputies who side with peace, democracy and brotherhood of people and are worried about Rojava and Syria policy.”
CHP said “National mourning should be declared”
CHP Spokesperson Haluk Koç:
“I would like to remark that a national mourning should be declared to commemorate young people who lost their lives during Suruç Explosion and condemn terrorism since whoever king of whichever republic dies and mourning is declared.”
CHP Vice Presidents Veli Ağbaba and Sezgin Tanrıkulu and Group Deputy Chairperson Özgür Özel offered a legislative proposal to Grand National Assembly of Turkey (TBMM) for a national mourning to be declared for the dead ones. (EKN/BD)
Imprisoned for four months in Maltepe L-Type Prison, British Steve Kaczynski (52) has been on hunger strike in his solitary confinement cell since he doesn’t have his magazines, newspapers and books. Kaczynski was arrested for allegedly being a member of illegal organization on April 2, 2015.
On July 6, Scottish Parliament Member Eadie wrote a letter to PM David Cameron:
(AS/BD)
Click here to read the article in Turkish
Many people attended the funeral ceremonies held in Hatay, Muş, Diyarbakır, Suruç, Kızıltepe, Trabzon, Dersim, Van, Elazığ and İstanbul provinces.
Hatay
Okan Pirinç
Oktay Pirinç was 18 years old.
Republican People's Party (CHP) deputies attended the funeral ceremony.
Muş
Serhat Devrim, Med Ali Barutçu, Mücahit Erol
Diyarbakır
Veysel Özdemir
Democratic Regions Party (DBP) provincial Co-Chair spoke at the funeral ceremony:"There were massacres in Diyarbakır, Kobani and Suruç before the general elections. We condemn this grim attack."
Nazlı Akyürek
Nazlı Akyürek was a law student in Kocaeli University.
Suruç
Osman Çiçek, Kasım Deprem
Kızıltepe
Murat Yurtgül, Emrullah Akhamur
HDP deputies attended the funeral ceremony.
Cizre
Uğur Özkan
Uğur Özkan was a member of Socialist Party of Refoundation (SYKP).
Ağrı
Erdal Bozkurt
Trabzon
Koray Çapoğlu
Gendarmerie and police officers took place at the funeral ceremony and didn't allow cars to pass near the burial ground.
Dersim
Çağdaş Aydın
Democratic Society Congress Co-Chair Hatip Dicle attended the funeral ceremony.
Van
A friend of Şen's stated they would go to Kobani with packages of toys and they would help to reconstruct the city.
Elazığ
Yüksekova
Süleyman Aksu was an English teacher in Yüksekova Anatolia High school.
Ordu
Alican Vural
Alican Vural was 19 years old.
Aydan Ezgi Şalcı
Bursa
Ferdane Kılıç, Nartan Kılıç
Ferdane Kılıç was a member of HDP.
İstanbul
Büşra Mete
Nazegül Boyraz
Gürsel Tekin Vice President of Republican People's Party (CHP) attended the funeral ceremony.
Ece Dinç
HDP deputies Ertuğrul Kürkçü and Garo Paylan, HDP Co-Chair Figen Yüksekdağ attended the funeral ceremony.
Hatice Ezgi Sadet
Hatice Ezgi Sadet was an art history student of Mimar Sinan University. CHP deputies attended the funeral ceremony. (BK/BD)
Click here to read the article in Turkish
According to the news websites soL Haber and T24, the reason of dismissal was Kadri Gürsel's tweet:
Kadri Gürsel: @KadriGursel
Who is Kadri Gürsel?
Deputy Prime Minister Bülent Arınç:
“According to the information given by Chief of The Army Hulusi Akar and Minister of National Defense Vecdi Gönül and senior military officers, our risk factors include smugglers, refugees and terrorists. A project which prevents terrorists crossing border but enabling humanitarian aid to pass. DAESH is a threat and additional measures will be taken to stop terrorists crossing.
“Critical regions of Turkey-Syria border were detected. With the help of all technological devices, an Integrated Border Security System will be built.”
Security Policies Expert, Mete Yarar, joined the program of Şirin Payzın on CNNTürk and explained the draft of Border Security System.
Yarar, stated 4 billion Turkish liras were allocated from the budget for the project and 110 million Turkish liras have been spent for the borderline. (ÇT/BD)
Judge Saim Nergiz of Urfa 2nd Criminal Court of Peace gave the verdict upon the request of Public Prosecutor of Urfa.
Nergiz gave confidentiality order since examining the case documents may endanger the aim of the investigation.
Confidentiality order was issued before for Reyhanlı (a town and district of Hatay Province, near Turkey-Syria border) and Diyarbakır (a city in southeastern Turkey) Explosions.
It was claimed that perpetrator of Suruç Explosion carried out members of Federation of Socialist Youth Associations (SGDF) was a 20-year-old university student, Ş.A.A.
According to the news from newspapers, the attacker was found out by DNA test.
CHP Vice President Sezgin Tanrıkulu announced the decision on his twitter account:
“CHP called TBMM to hold an emergency meeting after incidents breaking the peace in Turkey.”
Peoples’ Democratic Party (HDP) Co-Chair Selahattin Demirtaş had called for emergency parliamentary meeting after Suruç Massacre which left 33 people dead but CHP rejected the calling.
110 signatures of deputies are needed for emergency meeting in parliament. (NV/BD)
Prime Ministry made a written statement:
“Under the presidency of our Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoğlu, a Security Meeting was held on July 23 in Çankaya Mansion; DAESH attack was reviewed and security measures to be taken were determined.
“Within this framework, TSK launched an operation against terrorist organization DAESH within the border of Syria.
“At 03:12 a.m. three F-16 jets hit three targets of DAESH.
“Two predetermined headquarters and an assembly point of Islamic State were bombed.
“State of the Republic of Turkey is determined to take due precautions for nationals security.”
Details
* Turkey informed her allies about the operation.
* Operation is limited to ISIS targets.
* Mandate for military action against ISIS was received on October 2, 2014.
Günay Özaslan, a member of DHKP/C was killed during the operation.
According to the statement of Prime Ministry Coordination Center, 251 people were detained.
İstanbul Security Directorate Anti-Terror Branch launched the operation; 2 thousand riot policemen and 5 thousand personnel were assigned.
26 districts and 140 apartments in İstanbul were launched the raid.
Supporting police officers from Edirne and Bursa provinces, special operations forces, security directorates of the districts and motorcycle units participated in the operation.
Detentions throughout Turkey
98 defendants, 36 foreigners among them, were detained in İstanbul.
11 people were detained in Ankara. It was claimed that detainees were PKK and ISIS members.
6 people were detained in İzmir province.
35 people were detained in Urfa province in an operation carried out against PKK.
9 people were detained in Bursa province in an operation carried out against YDG/H.
9 people who allegedly made propaganda of PKK were detained in Iğdır province.
2 people who allegedly were members of PKK were detained in Antalya. One of them was under the age of 18.
13 people who allegedly were members of PKK were detained in Kocaeli province.
8 people were detained in Adıyaman province in an operation carried out against ISIS. (NV/BD)
Headlines from the statement of PM Davutoğlu:
Operations will go on
This morning, our armed forces destroyed successfully DAESH targets near Turkey-Syria border.
Instructions are clear whoever threatens our border
From now on, instructions are clear whoever threatens our border. We assigned TSK. Due precautions will be taken without further notice.
The U.S.A was informed
We informed the U.S.A and our ally countries but Syria government wasn’t informed.
297 detention
An operation was launched by thousands of policemen against DAESH, PKK and Revolutionary People's Liberation Party/Front (DHKP/C) in 16 provinces of Turkey. 297 people were detained. 54 people were detained related to police officers who were murdered in Ceylanpınar district of Urfa province, in southeastern Turkey.
Many weapons and ammo were captured. A member of DHKPC was caught dead.
Protests at the weekend
Headlines from the President Erdoğan’s statements:
Resolution process
“Whenever we made a stride about resolution process, separatist terrorist organization, PKK, abused our good intentions and democratic attitude towards fundamental rights and freedoms.
“Resolution process got out of hand.”
Syria
Attacks and illegal organizations in Northern Syria made Turkey take a step about the situation. DAESH is a terrorist organization and Turkey is sensitive about it.”
Operations will go on
“This night, first operation was launched against ISIS. Moreover, the police carried out operations in 16 provinces of Turkey. Many defendants were detained.
“These operations aren’t limited to last night and they will go on.
Targets
“Our targets are evident: PKK, DAESH and DHKPC. They are all terrorist organizations.
“State of Turkey is determined to take due precautions.
Threats
“We won’t let another fraction supersede the state. Name of it doesn’t matter; parallel structure or not. These threats are against our national security.
Suggestion
President Erdoğan suggested people ‘not to live in an atmosphere of fear’, when journalists asked his opinion about people who were worried about the forthcoming war.
Price
“We have martyrs, on the other hand. It is surely beyond doubt that they fall dead for the sake of our state. However, terrorist organizations will pay the price. “
Media
“When media supports national unity not terrorist organizations, everything will be different.
Security gap
“Everyone has their democratic rights but masked and armed people cannot roam in the streets of İstanbul. If it is so, that means a security gap.
Cease-fire
PKK should cease fire. If not, it will bear the consequences. It is as simple as that.
Government
“There may be a coalition government or not. We will make a stride according to the willpower of the nation. It will take 90 days, already.
Headlines from the HDP deputies’ statements:
AKP wants snap election
* Justice and Development Party (AKP) wants snap election by creating chaos and conflict. So they dream about coming to power alone.
* Massacres and attacks of ISIS, a rapist and barbaric organization, are the results of AKP’s wrong Syria policies.
Operations are not against ISIS
* Today’s operations were carried out against democratic opponents not ISIS. Our party officials, hundreds of revolutionist, democrat people were detained during the operations launched in 19 provinces in Turkey.
Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoğlu followed the process of cross-border operation in Çankaya Mansion in which Special Security Meeting was held.
According to the statement of Prime Ministry; domestic and cross-border operations against DAESH, PKK and Revolutionary People's Liberation Party/Front (DHKP/C) would continue. Districts like Zap, Metina, Gara, Avaşin-Basyan, Sinath Haftanin, Hakurk and Qandil mountains used as shelter, storage, logistic point and caves by PKK were bombed by Turkish Army Forces (TSK) by air operations. Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Turkey informed United Nations (UN), The North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) and other ally countries.
"Upon the request of members of the parliament, to discuss parliamentary research related to increasing terrorist incidents and their causes and precautions to be taken, Turkey’s parliament has been called for to hold an emergency meeting in accordance with the constitution and regulations on July 29 at 3 p.m.”
Republican People’s Party (CHP) had refused Peoples’ Democratic Party’s (HDP) calling for an emergency meeting on July 22.
Turkey’s parliament is on vacation until October 1, 2015. (YY/BD)
Click here to read the article in Turkish
“Each person you cause his death is our fellows. We share the grief without looking at their uniforms or political opinions. We won’t let our sons be killed in order to cover your dirt. Moreover, a corrupted interim government cannot call HDP to account.
“We have nothing to lose. We don’t have billions or protocol cars to lose. We are plain and we will be plain. You think your own fate. Interment flags cannot cover your sins. Fortunately, Turkey has HDP. The ones who see themselves as the master of the country while target HDP as the traitor should look at their own crimes.
“We will struggle against AKP not to come power alone due to a snap election.
“Peace was just one move ahead. These operations are carried out in favor of the government. The death of young people unsettles us.
Prime Ministry Coordination Center stated that 1050 people were detained in 34 cities during police operations started on Friday. Judicial process is going on for the detainees.
It was claimed that police operations were carried out against Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS), PKK and Revolutionary People's Liberation Party/Front (DHKP/C) but names of illegal organizations to which 1050 people were linked weren’t explained.
Operations will continue.
Prime Ministry Coordination Center stated:
“Domestic and cross-border operations against DAESH (ISIS), PKK and Revolutionary People's Liberation Party/Front (DHKP/C) threatening civil people’s peace and security and targeting Republic of Turkey’s national security and security forces would continue.
“On July 26, 2015, caves used as shelters, storage and logistic points by PKK were bombed by Turkish Air Force.
“On the other hand, domestic operations are carried out by General Commandership of Gendarmerie and General Directorate of Security.
“Synchronous operations have been launched in 34 provinces of Turkey against DAESH (ISIS), PKK, other radical leftist, illegal organizations and people who carry out armed attacks against our citizens and security forces. 1050 people have been detained until now. Judicial process is going on for the detainees.
“North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) Council has been called for a meeting to be informed related to attacks and terrorism performed against our country’s national security.
“Ministry of Foreign Affairs is informing related ally countries.”
“The government stopped resolution process and made laws like Internal Security Package restricting human rights and freedoms and then performed operations and bombings.
“Justice and Development Party (AKP) which lost its chance to come to power alone gives signals of a war government. These operations not try to solve problems but try to destroy them as Nationalist Movement Party (MHP) wanted.
“To join this kind of government means joining a war government. However, we defend peaceful resolutions. We are worried that these dangerous incidents will go on.
“A government which will make democratic reforms and reparative laws is needed right now. The interim government only informed MHP and Republican People’s Party (CHP) about the operations not Peoples’ Democratic Party (HDP). It indicates a war government will be formed.
“Senior bureaucrats and interim government create war policies. The government doesn’t behave as a government; it behaves like an extension of a specific political party.” (AS/BD)
Click here to read the article in Turkish
“Turkey uses the right to defend herself”
“Terrorism is an international act not only concerns Turkey. It also interests neighboring countries and universal community. DAESH includes foreign warriors. Turkey didn’t allow 16 thousand foreign warriors to cross the border and deported others. Turkey is sensitive about it.
“As a member country of North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO), NATO gives every possible support to the member country if it is under attack.
“Turkey uses the right to defend herself, now and she will continue to use. 78 million people in this country will use their rights. We request NATO to be prepared about the situation. You heard the statements of the U.S.A. They called PKK as a terrorist organization like DAESH.
“Resolution process is improbable”
“Resolution process has been abused. Unfortunately, we couldn’t reap the fruits of it. We also saw the bad examples of it during the general elections.
"There is a truth out there. I think to keep resolution process with the ones who threaten our national solidarity is improbable but what should we keep? National unity and brotherhood. They are precious things. There is no such thing as retreat.
"They will pay the price one by one”
I don’t approve to close political parties. However, deputies of Peoples’ Democratic Party (HDP) should pay the price one by one. The parliament should do what is needed and rip them off from their parliamentary immunity shields. If people collaborate with a terrorist organization, they pay the price.” (ÇT/BD)
Click here to read the article in Turkish
“The state of Turkey should stop military and political operations and violence; it should end impunity practice and policy against public officials who violate the human rights.
“PKK should keep cease-fire, stop armed attacks and shouldn’t counterattack.
“Isolation of the PKK Leader Abdullah Öcalan should be removed and the delegations and lawyers of Peoples’ Democratic Party (HDP) should be able to see Öcalan.
“Government organizations should be at an equal distance to political parties. Public officials shouldn’t factionalize or antagonize political parties. The hostile attitude against HDP should be perceived as a hostile attitude against Turkey’s unity and solidarity.
“Turkey should change her Syria policies and be nice to Syria/Rojava cantons and be effective against radical Islamist organizations.
“Peace and resolution process should go on.
“Turkey shouldn’t be leaderless, a peaceful and democratic coalition should be formed not a war government.”
“Authoritarian laws like Internal Security Package should be changed. Freedom of expression should be secured and all kinds of oppression and censorship should stop.” (ÇT/BD)
Demirtaş claimed that Süleyman Soylu was the head of that deceit team and Soylu gerrymandered traveling from province to province.
Prime Ministry Coordination Center stated:
“Domestic and cross-border operations against DAESH (ISIS), PKK and Revolutionary People's Liberation Party/Front (DHKP/C) threatening civil people’s peace and security and targeting Republic of Turkey’s national security and security forces would continue.
Zap, Metina, Gara, Avaşin-Basyan, Hakurk and Qandil mountains and caves used as shelters, storage and logistic points by PKK were bombed.
“On the other hand, domestic operations are carried out by General Commandership of Gendarmerie and General Directorate of Security.
“Synchronous operations have been launched in 39 provinces of Turkey against DAESH (ISIS), PKK, other radical leftist, illegal organizations and people who carry out armed attacks against our citizens and security forces. 1302 people have been detained until now. Judicial process is going on for some of the detainees. Others have been released."
It was stated that North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) gave the support and operations would go on.
Detainees who allegedly are ISIS members have been released
15 allegedly ISIS members, 11 of them aren’t citizens of Turkey, have been released in Ankara without a trial.
After taken the testimonies, the police informed the prosecution that there was “no evidence”. That’s why, the prosecution requested security forces to release the detainees.
Halis Bayancuk and Abdulla Abdullaev who were arrested during operations against Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS) refused to give testimony to policemen in İstanbul.
Bayancuk said “You are the men of a pagan system, you are all heretics. Ruling of any state who isn’t governed by sharia law is invalid to us.”
10 people were arrested in İstanbul; 4 of them were released under judicial control decision while others were released by policemen or the court.
"Signs were collected. If needed, İncirlik Air Base could be used.”
“Which countries will use the air base can be jointly decided with the U.S.A.”
Bilgiç expressed ‘moderate opposition and Syrian refugees who want to return’ would settle down the region to be created in the border.
PYD
Bilgiç touched upon Democratic Union Party of Syria (PYD):
“There is no support to PYD and we don’t give air support to People's Protection Units of Syria (YPG).
The parliament gathered to research the reasons of increasing terrorist attacks which threaten social peace and to take precautions against them.
Peoples’ Democratic Party (HDP) had called for the parliament to hold emergency meeting before but HDP couldn’t have the necessary amount of votes for the emergency meeting.
Republican People’s Party (CHP) deputy Şafak Pavey was the moderator; Bülent Arınç from the government, Mahir Ünal from Justice and Development Party (AKP), Levent Gök from CHP, Ümit Özdağ from Nationalist Movement Party (MHP) and Osman Baydemir from HDP went up to the rostrum.
Şafak Pavey:
“Every kind of anxiety created here may turn violence in the streets. This country is more precious than our ambitions. We are in the parliament to contribute. The violence calls us to move very quickly. I believe that we will get out of difficulties if we follow our mutual memory. I respectfully greet the dear members of the parliament and start the session.”
Bülent Arınç:
Click here to read the article in Turkish
After HDP deputy Osman Baydemir, Bülent Arınç went up to the rostrum for a second time and criticized Baydemir: “If a female deputy and Co-Chair of HDP had spoken, they would have said ‘We lean on PKK and Democratic Union Party of Syria (PYD)' and if male Co-Chair had spoken he would have said ‘Take up arms and make this government pay the price’.
HDP Diyarbakır deputy Nursel Aydoğan reacted to Arınç.
Arınç answered “Shush lady, be silent as a woman.”
What did Arınç say before about women?
In December 2012, CHP deputy Aylin Nazlıaka said “Prime Minister should give up being the warden of vaginas,” during the discussion of abortion.
Deputy PM Bülent Arınç reacted to Nazlıaka:
We Will Stop Femicide Platform made an allegation against Arınç with the participation of CHP deputies.
Again in July 2014, Bülent Arınç answered the reactions about his speech:
Erktolia Platform, an online platform against sexism, started a petition against Arınç and 34 thousand people signed it.
HDP stated that the presidency had the right with the votes of Justice and Development Party (AKP) deputies to ‘surreptitiously’ use the discretionary fund and it was against the law.
HDP also stated that annual budget of the presidency, 3 billion Turkish liras, which were allegedly collected from the discretionary fund to intervene in Syria and to form youth branches linked to the presidency should be researched.
CHP appealed to the Constitutional Court
This publication has been produced within the partnership with Osservatorio Balcani e Caucaso for the European Centre for Press and Media Freedom (ECPMF), co-funded by the European Commission. The contents of this publication are the sole responsibility of IPS Communication Foundation and can in no way be taken to reflect the views of the European Union.
Erdoğan stressed their only concern was Islam and they suffered from sectarianism.
Headlines from the speech of the President Erdoğan:
* The biggest problem of Islam is sectarianism. So called Islamist and Muslim Terrorists, take advantage of that problem while perpetrating hate crimes.
* We don’t have a problem about Sunnism, Shiism or different religious sects. Our only concern is Islam. We cannot accept people to cast doubt on Islam.
“Western world isn’t sensitive”
Erdoğan said Islam suffers from Syrian civil war and Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS):
* They try to imply that Turkey supports ISIS. Western and other world countries aren’t as sensitive as Turkey.
* We are deeply affected by discrimination against Muslims in Europe.
“There are Muslims who defend atheists”
Photo Credit: Kayhan Özer/AA
Selahattin Demirtaş appealed to the Public Prosecution of Ankara. The official complaint includes the press statements of Erdoğan and Davutoğlu.
1033 detentions
It was stated according to the official complaint that 1033 people have been detained during police operations since July 24, 2015 in 18 provinces of Turkey and there was no evidence against 125 detainees.
14 regions in 6 districts are forbidden to civilians between Aug 4 and 19.
Reason of “Private zones”
Governorship of Dersim reasoned the forbidden zones:
“Recent terrorist activities and intimidation by separatist terrorist organization and other terrorist organizations in Tunceli province begin to affect our province’s social and economic development adversely. As a result of those terrorist activities, our citizens are destitute of carrying out their economic and social activities and travelling. Our citizens are aggrieved much since their lives have been affected negatively.
Governorship of Tunceli takes due precautions in order to keep safety and security in the region and to provide security of life and property, to maintain existing environment of peace and trust and to protect our state and nation from all terrorist intimidations and attacks.” (AS/BD)
Click here to read the article in Turkish
“We condemn the bombardment who left citizens of Iraqi Kurdistan Region fell as martyrs. We request from Turkey not to bomb civil settlements again. There is no excuse of it.”
“AKP ended resolution process”
“Interim AKP Government ended resolution process.
“Even though Turkey’s people want peace, AKP executes war policies. As a result of this, funeral ceremonies are held in every part of Turkey.
“Armed conflict isn’t a solution”
“Ongoing for decades, armed conflicts don’t give results and insolubility is becoming permanent.
Questions to Davutoğlu:
* How many of AKP members and ministers’ relatives and children have had the certificate of disability for discharge since 2002? Who are those relatives and children?
* How many of AKP members and ministers’ relatives and children have taken advantage of paid military service since 2002? Who are those relatives and children?
* Where have AKP members and ministers’ relatives and children performed their compulsory military service since 2002? Who are those relatives and children? (EKN/BD)
“There actually has been a coalition since the general elections, June 7: A war coalition between Justice and Development Party (AKP) and Nationalist Movement Party (MHP).
“Turkey should immediately make a decision and permanently get rid of AKP.
“We want to hear from them: When are you deemed to have lost? How many elections should pass for you to understand that you lost?
Bombing of Zergele Village
“Investigations will be made on the scene of the massacre and the related reports will be made public in a few days. (YY/BD)
Peoples’ Democratic Party (HDP) Şırnak deputy Ferhat Öncü told bianet:
Şırnak Bar President, Nuşirevan Elçi:
“It was stated that the decision belonged to Council of Ministers but we haven’t been informed, yet.
Nuşirevan Elçi added they made an allegation against all responsible officials related to the subject. (AS/BD)
Click here to read the article in Turkish
On July 20, in Suruç from where they would have gone to Kobani to reconstruct the city, an explosion occurred and left 33 people (one of them was the bomber) dead.
The doctors of Vatan Budak declared his brain death a week ago. He had shrapnel piece in his brain. Vatan Budak had been taken to İstanbul with other wounded people, Ertuğrul Ekelik, Çağla Seven and Gökçe Çetin.
SGDF announced
Federation of Socialist Youth Associations (SGDF) members announced the death of Vatan Budak via twitter.
Along with Vatan Budak, the number of dead people of Suruç Massacre reached 32.
The condition of the injured ones
Turkish Medical Association (TTB) told bianet 24 people are seriously injured and still being treated outside Urfa province where explosion occurred while 26 of them are still in hospital in Urfa; one of them is gravely wounded.
There are 14 injured people in Istanbul; 8 of them are having ambulatory treatment while 6 of them are having inpatient treatment.
2 injured people are being treated in Ankara Numune Hospital.
People who lost their lives in Suruç Massacre
In the first seven months of 2015, men killed 160 women, raped 70 women, forced 122 women to prostitution, injured 229 women and sexually harassed 155 women.
Murder
Men killed 19 women and 2 men near them in July 2015.
Moreover, two women were found unexpectedly dead, two female violence and rape victims committed suicide.
In Kayseri province, two male murderers who killed women in 1998 and 2005 were arrested in 2015: A man killed his mother; his instigator was his father; another man killed his wife who refused prostitution.
16% of the women were killed due to divorce claim/leaving home: One of them moved into her family’s house but “had to reunite” with her husband by the insistence of her family. A woman who wanted to divorce was killed in spite of restraining order.
47% of the women were killed by their husbands, 16% of the women were killed by their fathers: Perpetrators were identified as follows: relative (1), friend (1), father (3), son-in-law (2), husband (9), son (1), lover (2).
47% of murders were committed with firearms, 26% of murders were committed with sharp objects: Killing methods were the following: shotgun (3), axe (1), knife (4), strangling (1), cutting throat (3), battering (1), pistol (5) and rifle (1).
4 men committed suicide after murdering, 2 men surrendered.
The murderers were aged between 17 to 67 years old; while female victims' ages differed from 14 to 67 in July.
Murder cases were reported in the following cities: Afyon, Aksaray (3), Ankara, Bilecik, Giresun (2), İstanbul, İzmir (3), Kocaeli, Konya, Manisa, Mersin, Samsun, Tekirdağ and Tokat.
Rape
In July, men raped 12 women and teenage girls; a woman was forced to prostitution.
Only three of the rapists were arrested: A woman was arrested for killing her rapist with rifle while two rapists who videotaped the offense and threatened women with the tapes were released by the court pending a trial.
67% of the rapists were acquaintances of women: Perpetrators were identified as follows: friend (1), husband’s friend (1), hospital employee (1), neighbor (1), lover (3), acquaintance (2) and strangers (3).
25% of the rape cases took place in apartments while 25% of them took place in abandoned places: Rape venues were listed as apartment (3), hospital (1), metro station (1), woods (1), hotel (1), street (2), abandoned place (3).
One of the rape victims was a tourist.
The rapists were aged between 15 to 40 years old; while female victims' ages differed from 8 to 41 in July.
Rape cases were reported in the following cities: Antalya, Balıkesir, Bolu, Bursa, Edirne, Erzurum (2), İstanbul, Kayseri, Kırıkkale, Kocaeli and Samsun.
Battery-assault
In July, men battered 36 women.
53% of the women were battered by their partners (husband, religiously wed husbands, lovers) 11% of the women were battered by their ex-partners (ex-husband, ex-lover): Perpetrators were identified as follows: father (2), son-in-law (1), religiously wed husband (2), doctor (1), ex-husband (2), ex-lover (2), burglar (2), acquaintance (1), husband (14), son (4), stalker (1), lover (3) and stranger (1).
17% of the women were gravely wounded, 78% of the women were battered: Violence methods included battery: knife (3), object (1), battering (28), torturing (1), blank firing gun (1) and pistol (2).
The perpetrators were aged between 23 and 55, while female victims' ages differed from 17 to 55 in July.
Battery/Assault cases were reported in the following cities in July: Adana (5), Aksaray (4), Ankara (2), Antalya (3), Burdur, Denizli, Elazığ, Eskişehir, İstanbul, Karabük, Kocaeli (2), Maraş, Mersin (2), Muğla, Osmaniye, Trabzon (7) and Urfa (2).
Harassment
Men sexually harassed 10 women and teenage girls in July.
40% of the harassment cases took place at home, 30% of the harassment cases occurred in the street while another 30% occurred during Quran Course.
7 women and teenage girls were sexually harassed, a female was verbally harassed; a man peeped a woman, a man violated the restraining order and went to his wife’s apartment.
Perpetrators were identified as follows: stranger (4), employee (1), burglar (1), husband (1) and imam (3).
Sexual harassment incidents were reported in the following cities in July: Adana, Bartın (3), İstanbul (3), Kocaeli, Manisa and Samsun.
Regional distribution
In July 2015, 78 cases of male violence, murder, attempted murder, harassment, sexual violence, rape and battery were reported.
The international delegates of III International Congress on Dilemmas of Humanity organized by the MST (Movemento Sem Terra) in Sao Paulo Brazil made a solidarity call for Turkey.
Signatories of the solidarity call text represent more than 50 countries. At least 90 organizations and non-governmental organizations functioning in these countries called for Turkey’s government to stop violence and restart resolution process.
Solidarity text was created by Özlem Yeniay who studies over Landless Workers’ Movement, David Harvey and Abdullah Aysu who represents our country on behalf of Farmers’ Union.
Özlem Yeniay, David Harvey and Abdullah Aysu are creating the solidarity text
Solidarity Call in English
“We are the international delegates of III International Congress on Dilemmas of Humanity organized by the MST (Movemento Sem Terra) in Sao Paulo Brazil.
We are deeply distressed by recent reports of the outbreak of hostilities initiated by the Turkish State against the Kurdish populations in Northern Syria, Northern Iraq and even within Turkey itself.
The liberation of that part of Northern Syria known as Rojava and the liberation of the cıty of Kobane from ISIS control through the brave resistance of the Kurdish population and ıts YPG militia with US aır support was a turning point in the battle to contain the spread of ISIS power in the region. Against this there is strong evidence of the collusion of Turkish government with ISIS in order to secure the overthrow of President Asad of Syria and to curb Kurdish initiatives to establish a new kind of social order in Rojava on the principles of democratic confederalism. This excıtıng experiment in a new form of democratic governance based on principles of personal and gender equality is threatened by Turkish military action.
In addition Turkish airstrikes against Kurdish populations in Northern Iraq and even within Turkey itself suggest the intention on the part of the Turkish state to launch an all out attack upon Kurdish populations everywhere.
We also protest the widespread and arbitrary arrest of supposed Kurdish sympathizers in Turkey itself and the threat to strip the parliamentary representatives of the Kurdish population of their immunity from prosecution.
In the light of all these events we call upon the Turkish government to cease and desist from all further military actions against Kurdish populations everywhere and we call upon all parties to renew the peace negotiations as envisaged in the ceasefire accords agreed in 2011.
We call upon the international community and all of those concerned with the establishment of peace and justice in the world to put maximum pressure upon the Turkish government to desist from the dangerous and violent course of action upon which it appears to be currently embarked.”
Solidarity Call in Kurdish
Em erîşên dewleta Tirk ên Bakûrê Sûrî, Bakûrê Iraqê û yên di nava Tirkiyeyê de li hemberî gelê Kurd dayî destpêkirin bi nûçeyên dîroka nêz dibihîzin û em bi van nûçeyan bifikar in.
Rizgarkirina herêmên di kontrola ÎŞÎDê de yên wek Bakûrê Sûrî ku wek Rojava tê zanîn û bajarê Kobanê, bi berxwedaneke bêhempa ji aliyê gelê Kurd û hêzên milîsên Kurd YPG ên ku ji ABDyê piştgriya erîşa hewayî distîne, bû xala werçerxa tekoşîna pêşîgirtina belavbûna heremê ya ÎŞÎDê. Li hemberî vê rastiyê ên ku hikûmeta Tirk ji bo serokê dewleta Sûrî Esad hilweşîne û ji bo pêkhatina peyanên Kurdan ên ku bi hêmanên konfederalîzma demokratîk li Rojavayê avakirina pergaleke civakî bisekînîne, bi ÎŞÎDê re hevkariyê dike û delîlên xurt li ser vê hevkariyê hene. Ev şêweyê nû yê rêveberiya demokratîk ku xwe spartiye hêmanên wekhêviya takekesî û wekhêviya zayendî tecrûbeyek e û kelecanê dide mirovan bi êrîşên dewleta Tirk ên leşkerî ve tê tehdîtkirin.
Li cem vê, pêkanîna erîşên hewayî yên li ser hejmara Kurdên li Bakurê Iraqê û di nava Tirkiyeyê de dijin de şanî me dide ku dewleta Tirk di niyeta erîşeke mezin bi tevahî li her cihî li ser Kurdan bike.
Bi vê re em, belaveyî û li gorî kêfê di nava Tirkiyeyê de girtina sempatîzanên hereketa Kurd û tehdîda rakirina destnedayîna zagonî ya li ser nûnerên gelê Kurd ên di parlementoyê de protesto dikin.
Li ber roniya van hemû pêkhatinên çêbûyî de, em bangewazî hikûmeta Tirk dikin ku bi lezgînî hereketên leşkerî ên li hemberî gelê Kurd li hemû hereman bi dawî bike û bila ji nû ve hemû hêl, dest bi hevdîtinên aşitiyê yên ku bi pêşbîniya çarçoveya peymana agirbestiya di sala 2011an de bikin.
Em ji civaka navnetewî û ji hemû kesên ku di cîhanê de ji bo aşitî û edalet werê sazkirin ji xwe re kirine pirsgrêk daxwaz dikin, bila aniha ji dewleta Tirk bê xwestin ku dev ji vê tevgera xwe ya xeternak û şîdetê bedre.”
(Kurmanci werger: Mehmet Emin Aslan)
At 11 o’clock in the morning, autopsies were performed on the dead bodies.
“Persecution is over. Great news for the families who have been waiting for 11 days near Habur Border Gate under 50 degrees.”
Şırnak deputy Ferhat Encü stated there was no permission about 11 funerals in Mürşitpınar Border Gate near Syria and they were still being kept waiting.
HDP Şırnak deputy Faysal Sarıyıldız said they expected 11 funerals to pass the border like 13 funerals of YPG/YPJ.
Click here to read the article in Turkish
18 journalists from nine newspapers are demanded to be sentenced to 1.5 to 7.5 years in prison.
Aforementioned nine newspapers are: Cumhuriyet, Şok, Millet, Posta, Yurt, Bugün, Özgür Gündem, Aydınlık and BirGün.
The names of accused journalists
Prosecutor Kiraz and two members of the Revolutionary People's Liberation Party-Front (DHKP/C) had died during the police operation on March 31, 2015.
Censorship and punishment for the news
Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoğlu said “Some media organs have the immorality to publish the photos of the prosecutor held by gunmen. We will do the necessary,” while The President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan told “We will evaluate the situation.”(EA/BD)
Click here to read the article in Turkish
"Police should help journalists"
Administrative Court stated:
“Law enforcement officers’ interference in right to demand information of journalists who struggle under harsh conditions to do their jobs instead of helping them is unacceptable.
Law enforcement officers are assigned to provide all possibilities for journalists to have right to demand information because this is the only possible way for citizens to have information in a most accurate and reliable way.
Helping journalists to starkly provide the truth is a sine qua non for a state of law. It is natural for internal control to choose the law enforcement officers and to train them.”
Kaçmaz: We filed a suit for the incident to be recorded
Human Rights Association (İHD) Mardin (a province in Southeast Anatolia) Branch Chairperson, Lawyer Erdal Kuzu told bianet:
According to the report of İHD Mardin Branch, there were 52 enforced disappearances between 1993 and 1996 in Mardin province.
Case Derik
A charge was placed against former Derik Gendarmerie Regional Commander Brigadier General Musa Çitil for unidentified murders of 13 villagers in Derik district of Mardin province between 1993 and 1994.
The names of the murdered villagers: Seydoş Çeviren, Yusuf Çeviren, Abide Çeviren, Ahmet Çeviren, Ramazan Çeviren, Mehmet Nejat Arıs, Piro Ay, Vejdin Avcıl, Mehmet Erek, Ramazan Erek, Ahmet Erek, Mustafa Aydin, Mehmet Faysal Ötün.
Musa Çitil was demanded aggravated life imprisonment and it was stated that Çitil referred murdered villagers as “terrorists” in his proceedings.
On February 17, 2012, two mass graves were dug in Derik district and a burnt human skull and some bones were found. According to Forensic Medicine Institution, the bones belonged to Mehmet Emin Aslan (19), one of enforced disappeared villagers.
“Daily life” criteria
It was stated in the regulation that the local administrative chief may decide the place where the protests are made and the permissions of political parties, mayors, three trade unions and public officials and representatives are needed for it.
The Police have the right to record
Defendants Serkan Azizoğlu and Nazım Coşanar, journalist Köklü’s acquaintances, Peoples’ Democratic Party (HDP) İzmir deputy Ertuğrul Kürkçü, Republican People’s Party (CHP) Vice President Gürsel Tekin, CHP İstanbul deputy Barış Yarkadaş and Freedom and Solidarity Party (ÖDP) Co-Chair Alper Taş participated in the trial.
“I don’t remember the rest”
Defendant Serkan Azizoğlu told:
“I don’t accept the accusations. They threw snowballs to my shop’s window which is big and expensive. I said ‘don’t throw’ and returned to the shop. They kept throwing. I grabbed a bat and then a knife from the shop since they started to beat and swear at me. Someone said: “Ouch!” I don’t remember the rest.”
Upon the question whether he remembered the moment of stabbing or not, defendant Azizoğlu said he didn’t remember the rest of it and he didn’t kill journalist Köklü but Köklü fell on the knife.
“Tradesman is a tradesman, police is a police”
Attorney Mehmet Ümit Erdem asked defendant Azizoğlu:
“The President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan said ‘tradesmen is a police if it’s needed and so a hero’. Did you take these words as an example? Why did you not wait for the police to come instead of punishing the opposite side by yourself?”
Azizoğlu answered:
Letter to Erdoğan: Nuh Köklü was a “Gezi protester”
Attorney Erdem made a statement after the trial:
“Defendant Azizoğlu’s brother wrote a letter to the President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan. The letter mentions Nuh Köklü was a ‘Gezi Park protester’ and Azizoğlu’s brother said they were members of a religious sect and they were asking for help from the president.”
“A snowball hit a spice shop window in Karakolhane Street. The shop waiter lost his temper and shouted to the group even though they tried to calm him. Later on, he ran back into the shop shouting ‘I will take my gun and kill you all. I have a medical report. I will go out of prison the day after.’
“The shop waiter attacked the group with a baseball bat. The group took the bat from his hands. Then he went back into the shop and assaulted again with a knife. He attacked towards a woman and another person whose jacket was torn.
Highlights from the appeal of HDP to UN:
Government
“Targeting and sacrificing civilians during the conflicts, the judgement is under the effect of the government since the government itself hides information and documents from judgment officials and prevents incidents from being illuminated.
Similar incidents
Impunity
It was remarked that UN organs should make an investigation against those incidents and added the government adopted ‘impunity’ policy.
Worries
“We are most worried that these kind of extrajudicial executions and mass murders of civilians may happen increasingly,”
Sanction
Demand of investigation
“As the applicant and notifying parts, we call for your rapporteur to launch an investigation against extrajudicial, summary or arbitrary executions in Turkey based upon aforementioned reasons." (YY/BD)
CNN Türk website stated HDP deputy Sırrı Süreya Önder and İdris Baluken met Muhammed Dervişoğlu, Undersecretary of Public Order and security on August 4. After the meeting, 13 funerals of People's Protection Units (YPG) members were allowed to enter Turkey from Habur Border Gate.
"İmralı negotiations should start"
According to Ferit Aslan from Doğan News Agency, Zübeyir Aydar and Remzi Kartal stated they would decide for a ceasefire without consulting the PKK Leader Abdullah Öcalan.
İrmez: Police opened fire in front of the hospital
HDP Şırnak deputy Aycan İrmez:
“We tried to reach District Governorship. He didn’t answer us but suggested we should see the Governor. We also demanded an ambulance from the Governorship but they didn’t help. You can see they don’t even care.”
Encü: It’s an attempt for massacre
HDP Şırnak deputy Ferhat Encü told bianet:
“Last night, the police blockaded Silopi and Cizre districts of Şırnak province to detain people but police opened fire upon the resistance of people. Three people died. Many people got injured.
(NV/ÇT/BD)
Click here to read the article in Turkish
According to the Governorship of Ağrı, PKK intercepted and burned down the cars in Doğubeyazıt district at 11.30 a.m. A military equip subjected to Patnos Commando Regimental Command was sent to the scene.
Bomb Squad Department Chief of İstanbul Security Directorate, Beyazıt Çeken, and two perpetrators died during the conflict. It was stated that a citizen was hit in the arm.
Attack with bomb-laden vehicle
At 1 a.m. a bombing attack with bomb-laden vehicle was carried out in front of Fatih Police Station. 10 people got injured; three of them were policemen.
The building of the police station collapsed partially due to the explosion and many vehicles and nearby buildings were damaged.
Statement from the Security Directorate:
İstanbul Security Directorate made a written statement related to the bombing attack:
“On August 10, 2015, at 1.a.m, a deputy police chief, two police officers and seven citizens were slightly injured due to a bombing attack carried out by terrorist/s with bomb-laden vehicle in front of Fatih Police Station in Sultanbeyli district and started to be treated. Detailed research and investigation related to the event continues.” (EKN/BD)
* Photo Credit: Ahmet Dumanlı / AA
Dağ Media Founding Member Pınar Dağ told bianet that they weren’t informed about the censorship of their website and they got very surprised because of not knowing the reason. Pınar Dağ added she applied for a legal transaction.
Fırat News Agency and Dicle News Agency had been censored before.
Website Özgür Gündem has been blocked
A few hours after Deputy Prime Minister Bülent Arınç said: “Many newspapers including Özgür Gündem, Evrensel and others…these are crime machines,” Özgür Gündem was blocked.
We talked to Editor Arzu Demir from Etkin News Agency which has been blocked for 11 days. Editor Demir said the freedom of information was blocked, actually and indicated the censorship was executed simultaneously with bombardments against the PKK.
“There will be no further process as long as this kind of mindset is acceptable. It will evolve into a period that darkens the future of the country. This is not just an investment for the elections.”
* The government should stop military operations against PKK forces accordingly.
* The isolation of the PKK Leader Abdullah Öcalan should be cut and he should play the role of peace-maker. Obstacles in front of the peace process should be removed and required delegations should be formed in order to negotiate.
Justifications of the decision were “forming illegal organization” and “eliminating the state of the Republic of Turkey by using force”.
Governor of Artvin province (in Black Sea region), Kemal Cirit, announced former prosecutors Celal Kara and Zekeriya Öz went abroad before the court decision but didn’t make a statement about Mehmet Yüzgeç.
From Georgia to Armenia
Who are the prosecutors?
Mehmet Öz, previously running December 17,2013, bribery and corruption operation had been assigned to Public Prosecutor of Maraş province and then was dismissed from profession.
Celal Kara, previously running the same operation had been assigned to Public Prosecutor of Afyon province and then was dismissed from profession by HSYK.
* A democratic political attitude providing permanent peace is needed in order to prevent cease-fire and no conflicting from abusing and to prevent new wars and conflicts.
Öcalan should negotiate
* First of all, a political willpower and resolution power is needed which enables Abdullah Öcalan to negotiate in a free environment and transform these negotiations into constitutional and legal norms.
Detentions should stop; outposts and military dams shouldn’t be built
* A reinforced truce is needed without detentions, outposts, military roads and dams and preventing democratic organizations and this determined struggle.
* Negotiations with the PKK Leader Abdullah Öcalan should start immediately and all political prisoners under arrest since 2013 Newroz celebrations should be released.
A monitoring committee should be formed
* A monitoring committee is needed for observing negotiations objectively and revealing acts and behaviors against cease-fire.
WWF Turkey, Doğa Derneği (Nature Organization) and Union of Chambers of Turkish Engineers and Architects’ Chamber of Landscape Architects had participated in the case.
Objections
WWF-Turkey’s Conservation Director, Dr. Sedat Kalem, reminded Cide regulator would drain more than 75% of Devrekani Stream for eight months.
“In ÇED report that we wanted to be cancelled how that great amount of water draining would affect ecologic life wasn’t mentioned.
“On the other hand, 10 thousand trees planned to be cut off are within the borders of Küre Mountains National Park. Cide Hydroelectric Plant Project wasn’t included in total water basin plan.
“Other Hydroelectric Plant projects and additional environmental pressures were ignored.
“State Council gave the right decision about Hydroelectric Plant project which would do great harm against region’s ecological balance.
What happened?
WWF indicated ÇED report was approved in 2009 and at least 8 thousand trees were cut off in the region by Orya Energy in spite of objections and judicial process.
“A building site was formed in village pasture. In 2011, Kastamonu Regional Administrative Court stopped the execution of building site with justification of “causing irreversible damages”.
Regional folks appealed to the court and then State Council canceled the aforementioned ÇED report.
Rich ecosystem
According to WWF Turkey, Küre Mountains are famous for their ancient forests, running waters, wildlife and biological diversity. (YY/BD)
Click here to read the article in Turkish
In Nusaybin district of Mardin province of southeastern Turkey, Government Office was attacked by rocket launchers and weapons. A special operation police got injured while a PKK member was killed.
Special operations team attacked journalists monitoring injured police officer taken to Mardin State Hospital.
The team opened fire in front of the hospital and battered the journalists.
The policemen’s curses at journalists “You are all militants!” caught the attention.
Two journalists got wounded during the conflict and it was stated that policemen confiscated a journalist’s photographs and then broke his camera. (EKN/BD)
“I have assigned Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoğlu to form the government. Davutoğlu meets main opposition party; Republican People’s Party (CHP) and Nationalist Movement Party (MHP). I wish the best of it.”
The President Erdoğan added he couldn’t have the right to extend the 45-day period for forming the government.
Snap election
In June 20, 2014, 5800 workers who were members of Kristal-İş Trade Union from six provinces and ten factories went on strike since Şişecam Company (an industrial group with the main activity fields of glass and chemicals production) and Kristal-İş Trade Union didn’t come to an agreement over 24th term labor contract.
However, Council of Ministers postponed the strike for 60 days showing “national security” reason on June 27. Kristal-İş Trade Union filed a claim, but State Council rejected it and then trade union appealed to the Constitutional Court.
Kristal-İş Trade Union drew attention to the decision of the Constitutional Court which served as a model but added the decision arrived late. (NV/BD)
Click here to read the article in Turkish
The names of DBP members who were performed police operation against at 6 in the morning:
Serhat Kadırhan, Eylem Onuk, Murat Kabul, Kamil Külter, Salih Gülenç, Zozan Anık, Ramazan Oğur, Leyla İşlek, Salih Ürek, Human Rights Association (İHD) Şırnak Branch Chairperson Emirhan Uysal.
Salih Ürek, Leyla İşlek and Kamil Külter were detained, but other names were not home.
The police fired the gun into the air to disperse the crowd who reacted to the detention of DBP executive Leyla İşlek.
Gülenç “We will rule ourselves”
DBP provincial head Salih Gülenç had made a statement previous day:
“We defend ourselves”
“It is a truth that Recep Tayyip Erdoğan (the President) and Justice and Development Party (AKP) broke the cease-fire. We defend ourselves in a war that was started and this is our incontestable right. United Nations conventions say if a people is attacked that people defends themselves. PKK defends itself.”
“They ended resolution process”
“They broke the cease-fire and ended resolution process. This means war.”
Self-government in local regions
“Local people should govern themselves and defend themselves. They should choose their governors, district governors and officials. The people do it right now.”
Conditions for a cease-fire
“If Turkish state, Erdoğan and AKP, release the prisoners they jailed, stop politicide and all military air and other operations, accept and declare the negotiations in order to solve Kurdish Question, accept fortified cease-fire, improve the conditions of PKK Leader Abdullah Öcalan, provide a free environment for the negotiations and make Öcalan the chief negotiator, form a monitoring delegation for the fortified cease-fire, start negotiations immediately, accept the existence of an objective third party and provide these conditions, we are ready to immediately declare the cease-fire.”
“Guerilla won’t retreat”
Governorship of Ağrı claimed that three people who lost their lives were the perpetrators and captured with weapons while Fırat News Agency (ANF) told Muhammet Aydemir (15), Orhan Aslan (16) and an unidentified person were randomly killed by special operations team.
ANF: Children were bakers
ANF claimed special operations team opened fire against all apartments and workplaces opposite the gendarmerie station and explained that Muhammet Aydemir and Orhan Aslan were bakers.
A dead body was found in the ruins of the apartments. Eyewitnesses expressed the dead body was taken there after being executed.
Eyewitness was detained
"My son was working in a bakery"
Aydemir’s mother talked to website BBC Turkish:
TMMOB Branch Chairperson Cemal Gökçe stated İstanbul is still unprepared for an earthquake.
Gökçe drew attention to assembly areas which were zoned for construction, urban transformation projects that focus on unearned income and spoiling natural resources.
“Buildings aren’t ready for an earthquake”
Gökçe stressed that 66% of Turkey’s lands were first-degree and second-degree seismic zones and 70% of the population and 75% of major industrial enterprises were under the threat of earthquake.
Branch chairperson said 20 million buildings in the country weren’t ready for an earthquake and schools and hospitals were vulnerable. Gökçe pointed out a collective planning was needed.
* Existing buildings should be improved, repaired and reinforced.
* Repairing and reinforcement should be replaced with reconstruction if it is expensive and irrational.
* New buildings should be controlled by enough engineering services.
* Buildings should be insured against earthquakes.
“Assembly areas were opened for construction in İstanbul”
Gökçe stated three out of four of 493 assembly areas and places for tent cities have been zoned for construction since 1999 İzmit Earthquake.
“Hazardous buildings should be reinforced"
“Most of the buildings in İstanbul are hazardous but not all of them should be pulled down. They should be reinforced.” (BK/BD)
“Everyone in the district wants peace. They frankly say ‘We don’t want the death of soldiers and policemen beside our sons.’ They are waiting for a solution.”
Kürkçü remarked they tried to reach state officials but they met by refusal.
State’s only manifestation is the police
Kürkçü shared his observations in Silopi:
“People were unjustly treated with the attacks. Buildings are full of holes. People were executed by shooting even in ambulances.”
“The state isn’t here socially. It only has force. District Governor stated the Governor had full authority but the governor doesn’t see anybody.”
Detainees are tortured
“Almost all of the detainees told they were ‘unutterably and humiliatingly’ tortured. However, people didn’t mention about tortures when compared with deaths.”
State violence against self-governance
“Clientelism between people and the state is over. The state hasn’t got social, cultural or political means to reach people. They only have the force and they desperately use violence against people.
“The main purpose behind the violence is that the state afraid people will create self-governance.
“Self-governance is perceived as autonomy but people themselves provide the public services in which the state failed. People build their roads, repair their power cuts. The only thing the state provides is violence. People fill the blank that the state left.”
AKP Leader Ahmet Davutoğlu made a press statement on June 13 and explained why there wouldn’t be a coalition.
Davutoğlu and CHP Leader Kemal Kılıçdaroğlu had come together for exploratory talks going on for 35 hours in 5 different sessions and then held a last session continuing for 4 hours and twenty minutes.
Dichotomy in the fields of foreign policy and education
PM Davutoğlu told they couldn’t come to terms with CHP on education and foreign policy so AKP didn’t lean to a long-term coalition.
Kılıçdaoğlu stated AKP didn’t propose a coalition to CHP but suggested instead:
"They suggested us to form a pre-election government, in three months to make reforms and then to go to the polls again.”
Why did AKP suggest a reform government?
Davutoğlu explained the “Reform Government”:
Score: "There is no agreement for a coalition”
Davutoğlu expressed that there was no agreement for a coalition.
“Teenagers got killed in the woodshed"
Artuk told bianet:
“Those teenagers were working in a bakery at nights. Conflict broke out near the bakery. When they went to the woodshed to bring woods for the oven, they got killed. They had no political connections.
“It was claimed that teenagers got a sawn-off weapon near them but it was ambiguous.
“Dead bodies of the teenagers were sent to forensic medicine institution in Erzurum province and then will be taken by their families.
“They have no connection with HDP”
Artuk indicated Aydemir and Arslan had no connection with PKK or Peoples’ Democratic People (HDP).
“Governorship behaves in accordance with the state”
Artuk said he wasn’t surprised when Governorship of Ağrı announced “three terrorists were killed” and the governorship behaved in accordance with the state:
“The prosecution has no document right now. How does the Governor know the case although he hasn’t got the documents?”
The Governorship of Muş stated the curfew was abolished today at 5 a.m. because land mines, traps and bombs were cleared and environment of trust and confidence was regained.
What happened?
There was a tension in Varto district of Muş province since a People's Defense Forces (HPG) member lost her life. A photo of a naked woman allegedly belonging to HPG member Kevser Eltürk (Ekim Wan) was reacted to on social media.
Dicle News Agency (DİHA) announced HPG guerrillas had taken control of Varto district on August 16.
DİHA also stated that HPG guerrillas called Varto District Police Department and said “A democratic autonomy was declared in Varto and a curfew was declared for military and policemen.”
Governorship of Muş made a statement related to the photograph of the naked woman and announced they launched an investigation against the person or persons who took the photograph and then shared on social media. (BK/BD)
* Photo Credit: Yahya Sezgin / Muş / AA
In Gölcük district of Kocaeli province, wreaths and cloves were placed on Earthquake Monument, roses were thrown into the sea and prayers were said.
Besides, a photography exhibition including photographs of the earthquake moments was held in the city square.
August 17, 1999
We aren’t still ready for an earthquake after 16 years
Union of Chambers of Turkish Engineers and Architects (TMMOB) Branch Chairperson Cemal Gökçe stated İstanbul is still unprepared for an earthquake after 16 years.
"66% of Turkey’s lands are first-degree and second-degree seismic zones”
Cemal Gökçe emphasized:
* 66% of Turkey’s lands are first-degree and second-degree seismic zones and 70% of the population and 75% of major industrial enterprises are under the threat of an earthquake.
* 20 million buildings in the country aren’t ready for an earthquake and schools and hospitals are vulnerable.
* three out of four of 493 assembly areas and places for tent cities determined by İstanbul province Council of Disaster Center have been zoned for construction since 1999 İzmit Earthquake. (BK/BD)
Photo Credits: Onur Orhan, Erhan Erdoğan, Tahir Turan Eroğlu, Emre Ayvaz / AA
40 people from Lawyers for the Environment and Ecology Movement (ÇEHAV), Yeşilgazete, Gaia magazine, Mersin Anti-Nuclear Platform, Akader, Anticapitalistic Muslims travelled around the regions of Botan, Diyarbakır and Dersim.
Observers told bianet helicopter attacks caused forest fires, the state officials didn’t intervene in fires and besides impeded attempts to extinguish the fire and finally many species were extinct as a result of the forest fires.
Legal action would be taken
Deniz Gedik on behalf of ÇEHAV stated they would take legal action against the destruction of the nature and call for international initiatives to participate in the struggle since burned areas were parts of world heritage.
Villagers try to extinguish the fire by garden rakes
Devrim Yücel from Dersim Ecology Council a 1400-hectare area in Dersim province was burned down and left long-legged buzzards, tortoises, eagles and hawks dead. It was stressed that wildlife was under threat.
According to the eyewitnesses, most of the forest fires resulted from helicopter attacks and armed conflicts or an attempt of sabotage. Few of them resulted from live cigarette stubs.
They aim to wipe out people from the region
Click here to read the article in Turkish
Peoples’ Democratic Party (HDP) Hakkari deputy and Democratic Society Congress (DTK) Co-Chair Selma Irmak told bianet “Varto had a terrible night and buildings were full of bullet holes.”
Irmak said people in Varto district of Muş province, in eastern Turkey, were overreacted since the buildings were opened fire from armored vehicles of security units.
The curfew in Varto ended this morning.
“The state doesn’t give information”
HDP delegation was turned down by Governorship, District Governorship and Police Department.
How was female guerrilla killed?
HDP Adana deputy Meral Danış Beştaş asked a parliamentary question to the Ministry of the Interior related to the death of HPG member.
Statement from General Staff
Davutoğlu and Bahçeli talked over mostly ‘security issues’ in two and a half hours.
Devlet Bahçeli: We won’t have members in a pre-election government
MHP Leader Bahçeli expressed there wasn’t a fertile environment for a coalition and MHP wouldn’t have members for a pre-election government since they didn’t approve snap election and their four main principals were rejected by AKP.
* Resolution process should be terminated.
* Responsible people for the December 17, 2015 bribery and corruption scandal should be on trial.
* The President who violates the constitution and the laws should perform legitimately and legally. (HK/NV/BD)
Click here to read the article in Turkish
Acquaintances of the deceased miners, Education and Science Workers' Union (Eğitim-Sen) and Soma Social Rights Association holding banners with the deceased miners’ names written on them participated in the session.
The court had postponed the trial to August 18 since there would be a conflict of interest. Cross examination is expected.
What happened?
On May 13, 2014 in Soma district of Manisa province, 311 miners lost their lives in a mine pit. There were 45 defendants; 8 arrested people , 37 people without arrest and 162 injured workers as victim plaintiff in the case.
8 defendants were demanded to receive imprisonment for “deliberately injuring and murdering”.
Click here to read the article in Turkish
Aydoğan told the conflicts ceased, but an operation was launched after the curfew.
Democratic Regions Party (DBP) Diyarbakır Provincial Organization called for people to go to Silvan in order to stop a possible massacre since law enforcement officers kept attacking people.
A person was allegedly dead
Aydoğan said there were three gravely and slightly wounded people, but they weren’t sure the gravely wounded person died or not.
The state demanded the ditches to be closed
Silvan People’s Assembly declared a self-governance on August 15. According to Aydoğan people dug ditches in order to defend themselves from oppression and arrestments but the state officials requested them to close the ditches.
The operation had stopped due to the dialogue
The Governorship said the Government gave the order
HDP deputy indicated the Government gave the order for operation not the Governorship of Diyarbakır.
HDP deputy Nursel Aydoğan:
“I hope these operations should come to an end without the death of civilians.”
Telephone line went dead in the morning in Silvan district. (BK/BD)
* Photo Credit: Yusuf Batı / Silvan / AA
Three militants with weapons are seen in the video, the one sitting in the middle speaks. ISIS’s first propaganda video directly targeting Turkey says:
…and then secular Kemal Atatürk came and forced Turkey’s people to deny their religions and imposed secularism. And then treacherous Erdoğan came and became friends with America, Jews, Crusaders, atheist PKK members and Free Syrian Army.
Yes, treacherous and taghut* Erdoğan opened air bases and betrayed Turkey befriending racist PKK and Crusaders and made Muslims in Damascus/Syria killed.
You became slaves at the hand of Crusader America and all your values were betrayed. This cursed taghut Erdoğan continued to be a servant to keep his shaky seat.
You will see that PKK captures eastern while Crusaders capture western Turkey and they will spread mischief, kill your children rape your women, grab your properties and enslave you. This is a great danger waiting for you.
Turkey’s people! You should immediately fight against this taghut, atheists and crusaders and repent!
Deny democracy, secularism and paganism until you fall dead for the sake of God.
Let’s conquer İstanbul altogether with the order of our leader Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi –God bless him-.
Our mujahid brothers in Turkey! Help the Islamic State wherever you are. We call for your help. Don’t you see the persecution coming from taghut? Come together with Islamic State.
God who reveals, rapidly secures the justice and fills the heaven with clouds, please pulverize the atheists and crusaders! And shake the thrones of taghuts and help us to fight against them. Praise to the God, the Almighty!”
* taghut is an Arabic word which means “cross the limits, overstep boundaries" , "to rebel” and refers to “paganism” in Islamic theology. (AS/BD)
Click here to read the article in Turkish
Closed to the press, the acceptance protocol lasted an hour and twenty-five minutes.
The presidency announced the decision. Davutoğlu had been assigned on July 9, 2015. It was declared that Davutoğlu would hand back his position on August 18, since he couldn’t come to an agreement with Republican People’s Party (CHP) and Nationalist Movement Party (MHP) during coalition talks. (HK/BD)
Click here to read the article in Turkish
An operation was launched in the morning in Diyarbakır’s districts; Sur and Silvan. Co-Mayors of Sur district and Democratic Regions Party (DBP) members Seyid Narin and Fatma Şık Barut and Co-Mayors of Silvan district Yüksek Bodakçı and Melikşah Teke were detained.
Hürriyet daily said the reason behind the detentions was the declaration of self-governance while Dicle News Agency (DİHA) at least five people along with four Co-Mayors were detained, the police used violence and pointed gun on them.
According to DİHA, two of the detained persons were DBP Sur district Co-Chair Ali Rıza Çiçek and an employee from Women’s Academy (Kadın Akademisi), Güneş Ölmez. (EA/BD)
Photo: Archive
Secretary General of the Presidency Fahri Kasırga, Deputy Secretary General İbrahim Kalın, former Minister of Justice Bekir Bozdağ and the Presidential Key Advisor Burhan Kuzu also participated in the dinner and the literature was spoken about mostly according to the media organs.
After the dinner, Erdoğan discussed the agenda and told he may not assign Republican People’s Party (CHP) Leader Kemal Kılıçdaroğlu to form the new government. Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoğlu had handed back his position as Prime Minster on August 18.
"We desire a sound election government and a sound election,” said the President Erdoğan. (EA/BD)
We compiled this news from Hürriyet daily and Star newspaper.
Police intervened in a protest demonstration in Esenler district of İstanbul against attacks in Muş (in eastern Turkey) and Diyarbakır (in southeastern Turkey) provinces. A 15-year-old protester Fırat Elma got shot and lost his life.
The dead body of the teenager was taken to Forensic medicine Institution.
It was claimed that protesters counterattacked against policemen and a conflict broke out.
Four people were detained.
The police have killed 201 people in 8 years
According to the latest report of Baran Tursun Foundation, the police have killed 201 people by shooting from 2007 to August 2015.
Mazlum Kaynak (19), had been accused of stealing and he was detained on August 13 in Sakarya providence of Marmara Region. He allegedly ran away from the Courthouse which he was taken to and then was shot. Kaynak lost his life. (AS/BD)
Peoples’ Democratic Party (HDP) Co-Chair Figen Yüksekdağ, HDP Group Deputy Chairperson Pervin Buldan and HDP deputies Hüda Kaya, Tuğba Hezer, Burcu Çelik, Yurdusev Özsökmenler, Mizgin Irgat and Asiye Kolçak, Ceylan Bağrıyanık from Kongra Jınên Azad/Fee Woman Congress (KJA) and HDP Muş Co-Chair Elif Çetinbaş also participated in.
HDP district Co-Chair Sabite Temelli welcomed the delegation and then the group started to march.
“Reveal the truth”
“We know that this state doesn’t like opponents, especially opponent females. A woman who resists is always a threat against the patriarchal state.”
“A war against people and women”
Osmanağaoğlu:
“A female guerrilla named Ekin Wan (Kevser Eltürk) was tortured when she was dead and was taken her photograph and then her photo was published by security units. This is ugly. You killed her but why did you take off her clothes and torture her dead body? Because you fight against people and women.”
Yüksekdağ: Peace wins, women win
Women shouted slogans while marching “Jin, Jiyan, Azadi” (Woman, Life, Freedom in Kurdish).
The delegation visited the family of two construction workers who were killed by law-enforcement officers. Figen Yüksekdağ said: “We will work hard for peace and resolution process.”
There were no apartments or workplaces which weren’t affected by the bullets in Varto district. We asked people what was going on. They just said “Everything is evident.”
We heard same remarks from the tradesmen and people while walking on the broken glasses and near the damaged walls.
"We dream a world that we giggle in”
Züleyha Gülüm from Women’s Initiative for Peace read a letter:
“We dream another realm. A place where the war is over. A place of which trees aren’t burned down with bombs. We dream a place that we can have equal rights to govern. We dream a place that we can discuss things loudly and when we are exposed to tear gas we can neutralize it with the crowd. We dream a world that we giggle in as Kurds, Turks, Cherkess, Laz, Alevi, Sunni and Armenian.
"We dream a world that our children will not live in warfare. We are the half of the community. We can stop the war. If we are determined we can do it."
“Suruç massacre, bombings in Qandil Mountains, executions and fire everywhere…Everyone is detained and we can’t get information. #WeWon’tBeSilentAsAWoman. (EA/SB/EA)
İşeri told bianet:
“At 4.30 a.m. our door was beaten heavily. They already broke into other apartments to detain people in the quarter.”
They used force by police shield
“When we opened the door, a police officer came into with weapon and police shield and pushed us. He put a gun against our heads. They shouted us to put our hands up.
They pointed long barreled weapons to us, but they didn’t tell us that they were policemen.
“They showed us a search warrant, but it was deficient. They told us they were looking for a woman and they launched an operation against Revolutionary People's Liberation Party–Front (DHKP-C)
“They stayed half an hour and searched for everything in the house, even plastic bags. Finally, they took a statement down and they were convinced that there was no crime evidence.
Gülşen İşeri indicated policemen tried to make her nervous and she would take legal action against it.
Police raid in Mersin province
Ekinci stating that President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan is willing to marginalize the Peoples’ Democratic Party (HDP) in order to establish his own presidential system and is eager to sustain the clash atmosphere during the election period to achieve this goal, said the only way to hinder this project is the Kurdistan Workers’ Party (PKK) taking away the excuse of security forces for resorting to arms by declaring unilateral ceasefire.
There is a highly neglected subject in Turkey. No one seems to take the strong bond between the Kurdish question and democracy into consideration. It was Tarhan Erdem first who wrote regarding this subject on media. As long as democracy remains at this level, it is not possible to resolve the Kurdish question.
Erdogan has used the peace process for years as an instrument for election campaigns; as in 2011 elections as well as in the local and presidential elections held last year.
He had intended to use it for the same purpose in 2015 elections but the HDP ruined it for him.
Effect of “We will not let you become president” on Erdoğan
How did the HDP ruin it?
Nationalitarian circles have mounted a ruthless attack against the HDP. They have repeatedly said “The HDP came to terms with the Justice and Development Party (AKP). The aim is to release Ocalan and have Erdogan elected as president. They are cooperating within this framework.”
Selahattin Demirtas, the co-chair of the HDP, addressing to these concerns said three times “We will not let you become president.” This statement has become effective in this regard; it has affected sceptical voters and sorely shaken Erdoğan.
Thereupon Erdoğan proclaimed three days later, on March 20 that he disapproved of
Dolmabahçe agreement. After this stage, the sides have slowly started to burn bridges and 128 attacks against the HDP followed it during the election campaign. Mass slaughters were intended in provinces of Mersin and Adana. A bombing attack was carried out at the Diyarbarkır public meeting the day before the election.
If the HDP hadn’t entered the Assembly
We were talking about the fragility of the resolution process. Should the HDP not enter the Assembly, would the AKP be able to put aside the resolution process that easily?
Of course not. On the contrary, it would have kept using it as an instrument. During that period, it would have sustained the resolution process by means of petty appeases yet wouldn’t have taken any concrete steps with respect to the essence of the matter. In fact, the things that have been done so far are all formal rather than essential. The concrete steps that would mark the equal citizenship rights of Kurds with Turks, and require constitutional modifications haven’t been taken.
As a matter of fact, Erdogan dogmatized the issue in his statement saying “There is no such thing as Kurdish question” on April 29. Following this statement, Deputy Prime Minister Yalçın Akdoğan explicitly manifested the intention of Erdoğan by saying “Hereupon you can only film the Kurdish question.”
July 20-25 and recurring conflict atmosphere
The circles close to the governorship point the HDP as the responsible group for the termination of the resolution process and the circles close to the HDP point the AKP. Objectively assessing the situation, who do you think has ended the resolution process?
After Erdoğan’s statements Bese Hozat, Murat Karayılan and Cemil Bayık had statements too in the manner of “The resolution process is no longer in effect.” The KCK leaders who had earlier announced that they won’t carry out armed conflict against Turkey, made statements that purport the resolution process de facto came to an end.
They clearly declared by killing two police officers in Ceylanpınar on July 22 that the resolution process was over. Erdoğan was already watching for this opportunity.
A day after this incident, ISIS killed a non-commissioned officer in Kilis and another opportunity watched by Erdoğan was actualized.
After this stage, Turkey declared that as the US requested it has joined the coalition against ISIS and İncirlik Air Base has been put into service.
Thus and so the war has officially begun and still ongoing.
90’s and today
You have been in person experiencing the Kurdish question as of 1925. Do you think we have returned to the 90’s as frequently voiced?
If you have noticed, on the one hand internal security law is being enacted, on the other the law to fight terrorism is in effect. They can include anything they want in the scope of terrorism. In this situation claiming to resolve Kurdish question directly means mocking people but nothing else.
Media in the period of clashes
One of the most disputed subjects in the 90’s was the language adopted by media. Expressions such as “Captured dead” or covering pages with the photos of deceased people were criticized by many circles. As we examine how media operates today we see a similar tone is being used. What do you think about the media clinging to the same language after the resolution process?
There is a leader ruling everything overhead: Recep Tayyip Erdoğan. He wants things to advance in this direction and things occur accordingly. His true purpose is to marginalize by also using the power of media, but the HDP is a great occasion for Turkey.
The HDP is a great occasion with regard to both resolving the Kurdish question and make sure the PKK return to civilian life by having it distanced from violence. The marginalization of the HDP hinders Turkey’s democratisation process.
“The PKK passivizes the HDP”
Doesn’t the PKK as well benefit from the marginalization of the HDP?
Indeed it does. For instance, PKK’s killing two police officers is utterly unacceptable. No tension had been created during the whole election campaign period and the HDP quite nicely handled the process. Nevertheless, I think PKK launching such attacks out of blue and escalating the armed struggle to past levels are totally intolerable and that this situation is passivizing the HDP. It seems to me as the PKK is almost competing with Tayyip Erdoğan in terms of passivizing the HDP.
The HDP couldn’t succeed in making the PKK lay down its arms despite its subsequent statements.
Public opinion pressure to end clashes
At this point there are three main actors; the AKP, the HDP, and the PKK. How to proceed for these sides to save themselves from this spiral of violence in your opinion?
There stands the Tayyip Erdoğan fact going beyond the AKP. First of all, public opinion should put pressure on both the state and Tayyip Erdoğan in order to end the clashes, there is no alternative way to that because it is Tayyip Erdoğan to make the decision. It won’t be easy to end the clashes without his call. The public opinion pressure should be maximised through the use of the limited number of media organs and that ensure the conflict step by step come to an end.
“The HDP might receive a blow in the election”
How does this situation affect the AKP and the HPD in the probable re-election?
Erdoğan’s primary purpose is to distance people from the HDP by unsettling them within this period of armed conflict and that to make sure the HDP remains under the election threshold. HDP remaining under the threshold means the AKP can modify the constitution by itself.
Thus, the AKP will make sure the present conflict atmosphere be sustained during the election period. I guess the security forces will be present by the ballot boxes guarding them in the election campaign. The people will be manipulated and vote in accordance with the will of security forces.
Villagers might get worried for their lives or well-being of their families. They will either refrain from going to polls or vote under the security forces supervision. I sense this sort of atmosphere of pressure, therefore it is possible that the HDP might receive a blow.
“The PKK must announce truce”
What should be done at this point?
The PKK should announce unilateral truce.
What would be the effect of PKK laying down its arms on the HDP?
In that case, the HDP increases its power in the election.
“The state can make the Ocalan make the call if it wishes”
If Ocalan is bestowed to communicate, he himself may call for laying down the arms. Is it possible that the AKP doesn’t allow Ocalan to be communicated with because of this possibility?
“The CHP is used by the AKP”
What is your opinion regarding coalition and the early election? What do you think is the most ideal option?”
Who is Tarık Ziya Ekinci?
Click here to read the article in Turkish
The other two detainees, Hasan Irmak and Abdulnesim Baran, were released.
The ceremony witnessed protests against politicians due to the killings of soldiers.
In the attack launched at the station on Friday, August 21, five soldiers got wounded including 32-year-old Ali Alkan. Among the injured ones taken to Şırnak State Hospital, Alkan lost his life towards morning on Saturday.
“Who is the killer?”
Those attending the funeral showed reaction to AKP Provincial Chairman Hamza Tor, and AKP Osmaniye deputies Suat Önal and Mücahit Durmuşoğlu.
“Who is the killer of this only 32-year-old son of this land? He hasn’t had enough time to enjoy his country, nor his loved ones, or this world. Who caused this? Why do those who kept on favoring ‘resolution’ [process] up to the present now advocate ‘fighting to the end’?” said Mehmet Alkan, Ali Alkan’s elder brother.
Another elder brother of Captain Ali Alkan said, “I am taking his body for the funeral prayer to be performed in the regiment. I don’t want to have the funeral prayer here with these looters.”
Karadeniz also said at the hearing that he had felt an increase of temperature in the mine prior to the mine accident, and had already informed of his superiors about this situation.
Another defendant without arrest, safety engineer Coşkun Derici, said that he never came across a Turkish Coal Enterprise (TKİ) employee for inspection in the mine during his three-month employment period.
What happened?
The bill of indictment about the workplace murder that took place in Soma on 13 May 2014 at the Eynez mine demanded a case be filed against 46 people including 8 of them were jailed. 162 injured workers were the plaintiffs.
(NV/DA)
* Photo Credit: AA/ Ferdi Uzun
Regarding the guerillas, Kalkan said, they “should not launch strikes against soldiers who do not go on operations nor attack guerrillas or civilians, who are not interested in political administration, who are simply at the border or standing at their post to protect their homeland.”
According to Fırat News Agency, the headlines from Kalkan’s declarations are as follows:
Call on the army and guerrillas
“I call on military and other forces not to participate in AKP’s war games. Absolutely no strikes or attacks will be initiated against them by us. And guerrillas should retaliate only against the guilty ones.”
“If this situation does not get better, Turkey’s democratic powers, intelligentsia, writers, and especially soldiers’ mothers and their families should not send their children to military service.”
“I call on HGP [People’s Defense Forces] and YJA STAR [PKK’s women’s guerrilla units]: They should not launch strikes against soldiers who do not go on operations nor attack guerillas or civilians, who are not interested in political administration, who are simply at the border or standing at their post to protect their homeland. This is not in line with our vision.”
“Guerrillas should retaliate only against those who are guilty. They should absolutely refrain from using violence on those who do not participate in the war.”
Meetings with AKP
“They consciously try to distort the past, and what is more, they try to make some facts forgotten, and even wipe them off history. İmralı meetings, and before that Oslo meetings took place.”
“We made meetings with AKP. We made these meetings as a party, Leader Apo (Abdullah Öcalan) made them, we made them through HDP committee as well as other mediators. The meetings at İmralı Island continued within the framework of ‘Peace and Democratic Negotiation Process Draft’ and lasted until the Dolmabahçe declaration on 28 February [2015]. An agreement was reached on 10 points and it was decided that the committees would be established to move into negotiations on these points.”
“Now, it is as if these have never happened. AKP is trying to erase these from people’s memory as if these meetings were never made.”
Ceasefire
“Some politicians are calling on us to ‘give up the struggle unconditionally and to surrender.’ To where will we surrender? What have you achieved that you are calling on us? Has the institution of politics functioned, solved the problems, and has PKK interfered with it?
“We did not have such a conflict in mind. This conflict has resulted from an attack AKP and Tayyip Erdoğan brought on.”
Autonomy
“Kurds have declared autonomy, and they have said: ‘Since the parliament in Ankara does not solve our problems, ignores the deputies we have sent, does not even hold meetings [with us], does not even consider us to be from Turkey, we will then solve our own problems and will establish our own parliaments. We will declare our autonomy and solve our own problems.’”
“If the elected representatives cannot find a solution, cannot show political willpower for solution, then the electors will set forth their own willpowers in a new way. And these are their utmost legitimate rights.”
MHP had stated they wouldn’t participate in a provisional government before.
9 males, 2 females
PM will submit the proposal to Justice and Development Party (AKP) and independent deputies tomorrow.
HDP Co-Chair Selahattin Demirtaş, called for Davutoğlu to elect female deputies for the half of the ministries.
HDP awaits
Click here to read the article in Turkish
Following the curfew declaration, Orman and Eski Kışla neighborhoods are besieged by armored vehicles. As artillery shootings launched on besieged districts, booms and gunshots were heard during the night.
Zeydan: Ambulance not allowed
HDP Hakkari deputy Zeydan said an artillery shelling hitting a house left an imam wounded.
“After curfew was declared by Hakkari Governorate, severe clashes have been taking place in the neighborhoods. In the house which is hit by one of the artillery bombings district’s imam İbrahim Akdoğan was seriously injured. Security forces don’t allow medical teams heading to help the injured to pass. No news also can be received regarding Imam’s children’s medical condition.”
Co-chairs arrested
Human Rights Association (İHD) Chairperson Öztürk Türkdoğan, KESK Co-Chairperson Lami Özgen, DİSK Chairperson Kani Beko, member of Turkish Chamber of Doctors Committee Council Şeyhmus Gökalp and TMMOB Secretary General Dersim Gül has visited Hakkari.
bianet compiled 13 video footages from the moment when Deniz Gezmiş, an iconic revolutionist young person who was executed by hanging on in 1972, was captured to Marmara Earthquake that occurred on August 17, 1999…
----------------------------------------------------------------
Deniz Gezmiş gets arrested in Sivas providence on March 18, 1971 and he's taken to Ankara.
AP's interview with Prime Minister Süleyman Demirel over the problems in 1976 between Turkey and Greece.
Interview with Prime Minister Bülent Ecevit over the problems in 1978 between Turkey and Greece.
Meeting of martial law in Turkey's parliament in 1979
Street scene during 1980 Coup d'état
On march 12, 1995, four coffee houses and a pastry shop were raked and a person was killed in Gazi Quarter, a working-class neighborhood where mostly Alevis live. People wanted to demonstrate on March 13, police opened fire and 15 people died.
Demonstration photos in Gazi quarter and Kızılay neighborhood of Ankara after the killings in Gazi quarter on March 14, 1995.
Police use violence against protesters who demonstrated against the arrest of 30 Kurdish politicians including People's Democracy Party (HADEP) Leader Murat Bozlak in 1996.
İstanbul University students clash on May 22, 1997
Tayyip Erdoğan's meeting and conference before he was imprisoned on September 24, 1998
People's reactions, demonstrations in Ankara and Prime Minister Bülent Ecevit' statements after Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) Leader Abdullah Öcalan was captured and brought to Turkey on February 16, 1999
People's reactions after Öcalan gets life sentence by court on the prison Island of Imrali
Photos taken from the air over Gölcük district, Two days after August 17, 1999 Marmara Earthquake
(EKN/BD)
"We uphold value of life”
In the artists’ joint manifesto, following statements shone out:
“War and fascism once again have become a part of daily life. It has fallen to lot again to establish perpetual peace against all alienating policies. We uphold the value of life because life is on our side.
“War used by rulers as an armor affects most poor and laborers. We are now facing the same plot. The governorship finding itself the right to attack every aspect of life has waged war against birds, beetles, trees, women, children and laborers.
“While Turkey’s peoples were believing that they would find a greater peace and tranquility atmosphere after June 7 [parliamentary elections] and made their electoral choices accordingly, this system and governorship with the greed of having a one man system has again stepped/stepping up to commit actions as if taking revenge against Kurdish peoples ruthlessly as they have done for years. This attack is carried out on every Turkish peoples in the person of Kurdish peoples.”
“Let us turn street into symbol of peace”
“We believe art needs to respond to the question ‘What should we, the artists, do in this situation to oppose these conditions?’ within the scope of art’s social mission. We are not in pursuit of a new definition in art’s stance towards such social instances and processes. We say enough is enough to present governorship that oppresses art, human, environment, and peace.
Signatories:
Evin worked at newspapers like Sabah, Yeni Yüzyıl, Akşam and magazines like Aktüel, Liberal Bakış and NTV. She has been writing at Milliyet since 2009.
Evin was granted Turkey-Armenia Journalism Award.
“I am dismissed from Milliyet. It’s okay for me.”
“As Journalists’ Union of Turkey, we call Millliyet Daily to regain consciousness and to recall the four journalists.
“As long as we are together, we can put an end to the imposition of bosses and dismissals. That’s why, we call for all journalists to get together under the same roof of TGS.”
This publication has been produced within the partnership with Osservatorio Balcani e Caucaso for the European Centre for Press and Media Freedom (ECPMF), co-funded by the European Commission. The contents of this publication are the sole responsibility of IPS Communication Foundation and can in no way be taken to reflect the views of the European Union.
The number of parties that will contest the Turkish general election of November 2015 will be finalized on September 5, on Saturday.
As per the announcement in the Official Gazette, the parties that fit the criteria to enter Turkey's 26th parliamentary election are as follows:
1- Justice and Development Party (AKP)
2- Anatolian Party (ANA Parti)
3- Independent Turkey Party (BTP)
4- Great Union Party (BBP)
5- Republican People’s Party (CHP)
6- Democratic Party (DP)
7- Democratic Progress Party (DGP)
8- Democratic Left Party (DSP)
9- True Path Party (DYP)
10- Labor Party (EMP)
11- Young Party (GP)
12- Rights and Justice Party (HAP)
13- Rights and Freedoms Party (HAK-Par)
14- People’s Liberation Party (HKP)
15- People’s Ascent Party (HYP)
16- People’s Democratic Party (HDP)
17- First Party
18- Communist Party (KP)
19- Liberal Democratic Party (LDP)
20- Centre Party
21- Nation Party (MP)
22- Nation and Justice Party (MİLAD)
23- Nationalist Movement Party (MHP)
24- Conservative Ascension Party (MYP)
25- Freedom and Solidarity Party (ÖDP)
26- Felicity Party (SP)
27- Social Reconciliation Reform and Development Party (TURK Parti)
28- Communist Party of Turkey (TKP)
According to the news of Salih Köprülü from Yeni Meram website, a person was exposed to a lynch attempt on August 20 at midnight.
First lieutenant was asking for an address and he was verbally attacked.
A group of perpetrators shouted “He is a PKK member!” and the crowd gathered. People didn’t believe that he was a first lieutenant even though he showed his military card. First Lieutenant was hit in the stomach and face until a police team came and saved him.
First Lieutenant’s nose got broken and he was taken to a hospital.
Polis detained two perpetrators.
Yeni Meram website claimed that the perpetrators were drunk. (EKN/BD)
A demonstration was held in İstanbul before the International Day of Peace, and reminded people who lived in non-war zones that children died in the clashes.
Street signs were named after the children who lost their lives in Diyarbakır, Şırnak provinces, in southeastern turkey and İstanbul during police operations and clashes.
The demonstration refers to Peace Week in September.
According to the news of Dicle News Agency, the police located in District Police Department’s Traffic Division opened fire against the mother and her child this morning at 00.30 a.m.
Fatma Ay and B.Ö. were taken to Silopi State Hospital; Ay lost her life.
B.Ö. who was hit in the shoulder was sent to a hospital in Batman province, in southeastern Turkey. (AS/BD)
“I’m dismissed by Milliyet Daily. Let’s hope for the best for Milliyet and me. I hope I’ll see a better future for journalism.”
Alus told bianet:
"I made news about Ergenekon case, bombing attacks in İstanbul, terrorist organizations’ demonstrations and etc… I am proud that my news was published at Milliyet on the day I was dismissed. In the old times, h-journalists were dismissed since they poorly performed. However, that’s not the same now.”
Who is Burcu Karakaş?
Has been working at Milliyet Daily since 2010, Burcu Karakaş is known for her news about human rights and women’s rights.
She graduated from Marmara University’s Political Science and International Relations Department and had a master degree from Boston University’s Journalism Department over the Middle East.
She has been writing at bianet time to time.
Who is Esra Alus?
Esra Alus has been working at Milliyet Daily for 13 years after leaving İhlas News Agency in 2002. She is a reporter since 1998. Alus followed cases like Ergenekon and Operation Sledgehammer (Balyoz Harekatı in Turkish) and was sued many times due to the news she made.
We addressed this question to rights defenders and 12 figures from circles struggling for peace; Eren Keskin, Arzu Çerkezoğlu, Merve Arkun, Celalettin Can, Lami Özgen, Pınar Aydınlar, Mehmet Tursun, Engin Gündük, Nebahat Akkoç, Burak Özgüner, Tarık Ege and İrem Güven.
“Truce”
Eren Keskin (İHD Central Executive Board Member): I want PKK to announce the truce in order for the hope for peace to actualize on September 1. What would disturb the state most is going to be that action.
Nebahat Akkoç (KAMER): Initially arms must be laid down for us to at least talk about the peace on September 1. We declared this to PKK first because HDP entering parliament by overcoming the threshold has caused an outcome paving the way for civil politics. Unfortunately Turkey’s NGOs and circles supporting HDP couldn’t enjoy it as right after it the clashes have begun. The state needs to put an end to this dirty war, which claims the lives of especially children, reminding of the 90s.
Celalettin Can (Wise Men Committee, 78 Generation Initiative): Conflicting parties must immediately lay down their arms. A nationalistic, alienating, libelous, and challenging language should be avoided during this period so that people can start dialogue and resolution after peace is established too.
“The process must continue”
Lami Özgen (KESK Chairperson): All conflicts must stop in our country, in the Middle East and all over the world. Dialogue and resolution process that began depending on Kurdish question must be unconditionally picked up from where it is left off. We have seen that we can solve all our issues by talking them out and no one died. Our country and the government should hold a stance towards their war policies over the Middle East by reviewing their foreign politics.
Arzu Çerkezoğlu (DİSK Secretary General): These conflicts must end. The resolution and negotiation process should resume with respect to democratic resolution for the Kurdish question and war policies should be abandoned.
“Conscientious objection”
Merve Arkun (Conscientious Objection Association Co-Chairperson): We, as Conscientious Objection Association asks everybody to declare their conscientious objections and refuse to receive arms. This argument is being voiced by everyone unlike the previous war periods. Even though General Staff says that voluntary military service applications are on the rise, the number of conscientious objection applications is at its peak. It is obvious that the ongoing war represents the will of “palace”, which is why people loudly express their unwillingness to take up arms.
Pınar Aydınlar (Independent Art Initiative): All peoples must fight together to establish peace. We defend art in opposition to fighting. We vow to use our art us our weapon for freedom, peace and justice.
“Pro-peace media”
İrem Güven (LGBTI Peace Initiative): AKP must immediately stop its attacks against Kurdistan, allow municipalities to start works for the reparation of demolished cities and houses and take necessary measures for the treatment of wounded. Besides, the president should start to remain in constitutional boundaries. On the other hand, we should unite our voices and struggle together as pro-peace and pro-democracy people of this country. We should campaign together to speak up peace in an atmosphere in which media is muted.
“Agents of war can establish peace”
Mehmet Tursun (International Baran Tursun Foundation): Peace can be established by agents of war, whom are mothers of soldiers and guerillas. We, the İzmir Peace Block are going to go to the border as per Baran Tursun Foundation’s suggestion with mothers of 50 soldiers and 50 guerrillas. Soldiers’ mothers will be human shields by the military guard post and mothers of the guerrillas will be human shields on the falls across the post for their children.
Engin Gündük (Alewi Bektashi Federation Vice President): Starting from today, everyone should put away their egos, realize that our children are more important than anyone’s seats and posts, and uphold peace for the country to become a land where everyone can live together peacefully. (BK/ÇT/TK)
Click here to read the article in Turkish
An interim decision was issued by the Akhisar High Criminal Court on Friday relating to the mine disaster in western Turkey in May 2014 which left 301 miners dead. According to the decision, the next hearing, which involves 46 defendants, 8 of whom are currently in custody, will commence on October 13.
“There is fear, pressure, fear of being hungry. They [the company officials/employees] obligated the surviving miners to choose from either ‘hunger above’ or ‘death below’.”
“The justice is functioning for the rich, not the poor-fellow. We will continue until we find justice, [will first apply to] Constitutional Court, if that does not work out, then the European Court of Human Right. 440 orphans and 255 young widows remained behind. We stand behind our case, we will go all lengths.”
Elçi: They were interrogated due their interviews
Diyarbakır Bar President, Tahir Elçi, told bianet that journalists were detained with notice and interrogated due to their interviews, photos and contacts.
Hanrahan, Pendlebury and two journalists who were also interpreters were detained in Diyarbakır province last week. The journalists were sent to Criminal Court of Peace on duty for arrest on Monday.
The Court decided that Hanrahan, Pendlebury and M.İ.R would be arrested for ‘helping an illegal organization deliberately without participating in its hierarchy.’
Vice News reacted:
International reaction
Amnesty International, PEN International and Committee to Protect Journalists also reacted to the arrests of the Vice News journalists and interpreters. (EA/BD)
Click here to read the article in Turkish
This publication has been produced within the partnership with Osservatorio Balcani e Caucaso for the European Centre for Press and Media Freedom (ECPMF), co-funded by the European Commission. The contents of this publication are the sole responsibility of IPS Communication Foundation and can in no way be taken to reflect the views of the European Union.
“Let’s volume up the peace”
Ümit Efe (Human Rights Foundation of Turkey/TİHV Representative from İstanbul): Everybody should do their best.Politicians, students, housewives, children, defenders of human rights, democratic masses’ organizations and mostly political powers and ruling parties should do their best in order to provide nonstop cease-fire and to secure democratic rights.
Mehmet Soğancı (Turkey’s Union of Engineers and Architects/TMMOB Chairman): If it is possible, there will be peace in five seconds. September 1 is the most important day in Turkey since it requires for all people to volume up the peace and stand shoulder to shoulder.
Nimet Tanrıkulu (Women Initiative for Peace): clashes start again these days when we need peace most as women. We see that women paid the price. As women who are struggling for peace, a permanent peace can only be establishes by women. Women should be organized on International Day of Peace. We say, “Our lives are bombed! We don’t give up struggling for peace. Let’s say we ae insistent of peace, we don’t want peace!”
“Arms should be laid down”
Öztürk Türkdoğan (Committee of Wise Men, Human Rights Foundation Present): The parties should cease fire. We need a permanent cease-fire in Turkey. Defenders of peace should express it loudly and make arms laid down.
Filiz Karakuş (Socialist Feminist Collective / SFK): Firstly,there should be a ceasefire.The state should give up operations, detentions and bombings while Kurdistan Workers’ Party (PKK) should give up counterattacks and sabotages. We should aim to eliminate the reason for a war. Presidential Palace and Interim Government should respond to the requests of Kurds and protect democratizations instead of denying and eliminating Kurdish question.
“We should be organized”
Elif Avcı (Lambdaistanbul/A LGBTI Organization): You should believe peace will come to this country first and then you should struggle for your belief. I think people who have commonsense should be organized. We must tell everybody why and how we want peace.
Hanım Tosun (Saturday Mothers): We call for peace but nobody listens to us.We will continue to call for it until they hear us. I suffer agony from both funeral ceremonies of policemen and guerrillas. They all have families. I issue a call for peace in spite of everything.
“Struggling together”
Melek Özman (International Filmmor Women Film Festival Coordinator): We should find a way to organize for peace. We arnet the minority. We can be organized with the participant of everybody. We only stop the war and this state if we come into action for the peace.
Oğuz Yüzgeç (SGDF Co-Chair): Suruç Massacre was a milestone.Unfortunately, there won’t be peace without good wishes. On September 1, should struggle together realizing this war belongs to the presidential palace. There will be only peace if there is a permanent struggle.
"War means death, disability and illness”
Mahmut Keçeci (Forum for Disability Rights): There is no winner of the war in the eye of the peoples.Only way to defeat imperialist dictation and war is to act with solidarity of people. Disability Rights organizations should do studies to imply the war feeds an army of disabled ones and mobilize people against war.
Politicians
Ali Haydar Konca (Minister of EU): Obstacles before press freedom should be removed. We don’t approve of the operations against media.
Kemal Kılıçdaroğlu (Republican People’s Party Leader): It is not possible to talk about democracy in a country in which media is subjected to censor. I am calling on the government to be more careful and not bring shame on us in the eyes of world public.
Devlet Bahçeli (Nationalist Movement Party Leader): Some concerning actions are being taken towards investment groups as there is growing pressure on media. It is impossible to approve it.
Durmuş Yılmaz (MHP Deputy, former president of Central Bank): Seizing press and investment puts Turkey in a difficult situation in G-20. Such attempts that will block future investments must be avoided.
Mahmut Tanal (CHP İstanbul Deputy): Turkey is the first country in the world that links press members with terror. Today the operation against Koza is in fact an operation against employment which trundlers Turkey to poverty.
Press organization
Pınar Türenç (President of Press Council): Charging media organs with promoting terror is unacceptable. I consider it as an effort to intimidate media in order to force them to make news in accordance with a certain political agenda ahead of upcoming elections.
Turkey’s Union of Journalists: The raid against Koza-İpek group is an operation of defiance and censorship. We call all our members to react against that.
Turkey’s Association of Journalists: Journalism and journalists will not be able to be obstructed by operations and pointing them as targets.
Journalists
Can Dündar (Cumhuriyet daily Chief Editor): Police raided Bugün daily. Mark the headline of the newspaper today!: “Shipment of equipment used in weapon making to ISIS on Akçakale border documented.”
The project documents the names, the ages, the gender, the country of origin, the cause of death of 22,342 known migrants, asylum seekers, and refugees who died within the borders of Europe from January 1, 1993 to June 14, 2015.
The List project to appear from evenings to mornings for 31 days
The List is compiled and updated every year by the Amsterdam-based organization UNITED for Intercultural Action.
In collaboration with various organizations, artist Banu Cennetoğlu has shown up-to-date versions of her project in several countries in different languages since 2006 via ad-boards and newspaper supplements.
Within this context, The List’s 49-page long Turkish version was displayed on 150 billboards in Istanbul’s various districts and subway lines between 15-23 October, 2012. (NV/DA)
Governor of Kilis, Süleyman Tapsız, told a conflict broke out at 6 p.m. yesterday between the soldiers and a group of smugglers.
Altınok: That soldier got lost
According to the Minister of the Interior, Selami Altınok, one of the soldiers got lost and he didn’t have any information if the soldier was kidnapped or not.
“We hail our people and women around the world as Bethnahrin Women Protection Forces. We as Assyrian-Aramaic-Chaldean-Syriac women founded a military organization to destroy the barbarism of ISIS.”
“Along with Syriac Military Council (MFS) and Sutoro (the Syriac Security Office), women forces are needed,” says Bethnahrin Women Protection Forces and they aim to improve the values of Syriac people, women’s rights and to act with solidarity with other nations’ women and to struggle against the reactionism.
Declaration of foundation
“ISIS started a cultural, ethnic and denominational war against Christians, Yazidis, Alevis, defenders of democracy and reformers. This corrupted mindset lives in Mosul, Sengal, Nineveh Plain, Kobane Khabar Al Karyatayn and many more places. ISIS, Al Qaeda, Boko Haram, Al Shabab, Al Nusra and their inhuman organizations aim to enslave women forever, destroy democracy and foul the core of societies. That’s why, people who have empathy and sympathy and especially women should struggle against ISIS and its supporters.
“They want to destroy our motherland, Mesopotamia, Middle East, historical buildings and Syriac people.
“Syriac people should protect themselves and act with solidarity in order to sustain their motherland, identity, existence, and heritage. We as Assyrian-Aramaic-Chaldean-Syriac women founded a military organization to destroy the barbarism of ISIS. We will provide security of life and property of our people.
“As Syriac women, we believe that will be supported and we will win this righteous struggle by taking strength from our heritage, under the guidance of Bethnahrin National Council (MUB).
Seven refugees died while four of them were saved.
5 lost people are still being searched for.
Another boat carrying six refugees sank near Bodrum district.
The report says, 2,544 people were detained, 338 people were arrested, 137 people died, 130 regions of 15 provinces were declared as special areas in 40 days and ‘basic rights were suspended.’
Attacks against journalists and the media
Between July 27 and August 28.
* 103 websites, 23 twitter accounts were blocked. 50 URL were blocked with the attempt of a businessman, Ethem Sancak.
* 10 journalists were attacked, three journalists were threatened by the police.
* Newspapers Evrensel and Sol were threatened by Turkish Revenge Brigade (TİT). Sözcü Newspaper announced ‘they won’t be silent.’
* 20 journalists from Newspapers Hürriyet, Milliyet and HaberTürk.
21 journalists were on trial, two journalists were arrested
* Two British journalists were arrested.
* 21 journalists were put on trial since they published the images of prosecutor Mehmet Kira who was kidnapped by gunmen and they were sued for imprisonment for 157,5 years.
* A media group was raided by policemen.
Solidarity Network against Censorship said these violations and attacks should be perceived as attacks against freedom of expression and press.
Solidarity Network against Censorship
A chief police officer and three policemen lost their lives. (NV/BD)
Photo Credit: AA archive
Yesterday, a photo of a drowned child who washed up on shore in Bodrum district of Aegean region of Turkey came to the fore. The child and other Syrian refugees were going to Kos Island of Greece from Turkey in a boat but the boat sank from overcapacity.
Publishing that child’s photo in a newspaper was debated both in Turkey and international media.
Some media members published the photo, some didn’t and some of them blurred the face of child while publishing the news.
Some newspapers explained why they published the photo.
bianet asked Professor Serdar Değirmencioğlu from Doğuş University Psychology Department and lawyer Seda Akço from İstabul Bar Association Children Rights Center.
Değirmencioğlu: You need to face the doom
Prof. Serdar Değirmencioğlu:
“Child’s face shouldn’t be seen. It is out of question for the child to be recognized or get harmed since he doesn’t live anymore.
“There is a tragedy and you need to face the doom. This photo gives us a message to wake up.”
Akço: Why it is disturbing is important
Lawyer Seda Akço:
“Is this photo disturbing? Yes, but why are the people disturbed? Does this photo harm the child? Are they disturbed to see such a photo of a drowned child?
“There isn’t a rule saying ‘I’m very irritated to see a drowned child, these kinds of photos shouldn’t be published,’ and there shouldn’t be.
“If we don’t understand the severity of the situation when the news hasn’t got the photo, it becomes necessary to publish the news with a photo, even it belongs to a drowned child.
“To request these kinds of photos not to be published isn’t true, I guess.
Peter Bouckaert: What I find offensive is that drowned children are washing up on our shorelines..
Peter Bouckaert from Human Rights Watch (HRW):
“Some say the picture is too offensive to share online or print in our newspapers. But what I find offensive is that drowned children are washing up on our shorelines when more could have been done to prevent their deaths.
The photo of the drowned Syrian refugee child on the shore sparked a debate. Should it be published on the news or not?
bianet asked the opinions of photojournalists Bülent Kılıç from AFP, Hüseyin Özdemir from Milliyet, Özcan Yurdalan from Nar Photos and freelance photojournalists Ahmet Şık and Cem Türkel.
Ahmet Şık:
“I would publish that photo because I see it as a part of the news. The war in Syria has been going on for 5 years and Turkey has a finger in.
We see thousands of those refugee children in the streets. People just shrug their shoulders while passing. The difference between a Syrian beggar child and ‘that’ child is one of them doesn’t breath anymore.
Saudi Arabia, Qatar, some European countries, the U.S.A and Justice and Development Party (AKP) are all responsible from that child’s dead body.
Bülent Kılıç:
That photo shocked everyone and had a great impact on Europe and the U.S.A.
Some people are disturbed emotionally with that image. However, that photo might change the approach against the refugees.
Özcan Yurdalan:
The violence, pain and the persecution shouldn’t be hidden. I am sure of it, but how can you publish those images?
You should pay attention to the situation and the persecution behind that image. Maybe, when you make the violence visible, the victims will have spoken their last words.
Hüseyin Özdemir:
There are thousands of photos of dead Syrian refugee children but we aren’t affected that much because it’s happening in Syria. We aren’t aware of it but these people escape from our country.
Cem Türkel:
The job of a photojournalist and a journalist is transferring both pain and pleasure. There is no problem of publishing that photo. We should question the responsible people behind it.
A photo can be effective but it can’t change things immediately. I mean, the war won’t stop in Syria when you publish that photo but it might change the opinions against Syrian refugees. It would be a great effect.
What happened?
Amnesty International, PEN International and Committee to Protect Journalists reacted to the arrests of the Vice News journalists and interpreters.
Vice News
Justice and Development Party (AKP), Republican People’s Party (CHP) and Nationalist Movement Party (MHP) gave yes vote while Peoples’ Democratic Party (HDP) said no. 20 deputies from CHP who criticized their party’s approach over the resolution didn’t participate in the voting.
AKP had passed a resolution allowing an operation against Iraq in 2007, for the first time and the resolution was extended for six times. In 2012, a cross-border operation against Syria was approved and it was extended once more.
What does ‘resolution’ say?
Justification
Photo Credit: AA/Murat Kaynak
In the first eight months of 2015, men killed 182 women, raped 90 women, forced 142 women to prostitution, injured 266 women and sexually harassed 161 women.
Murder
Men killed 22 women in August. Two of them were killed while trying to prevent femicide in family. A woman was killed by a sledgehammer while resisting to her rapist.
A woman was killed even though her husband had restraining order.
Moreover, two women were murdered in Diyarbakır province, in southeastern Turkey but their perpetrators couldn't be found. ıt was claimed that a teenager (16) in Konya province in central Turkey committed suicide after she was beaten by her husband. She had been forced into marriage. A woman in Kocaeli province, in Marmara region, was found dead.
Perpetrators of Cansu Kaya were found in August.
54.5% of the women were killed by their ex and new partners (husband, ex-husband, lover, ex-lover, fiancé and ex-fiancé): Perpetrators were identified as follows: relatives (2), acquaintance (2), unidentified person (1), son-in-law (1), ex-fiancé (1), ex-lover (1), colleague (1), brother (1), father-in-law (1), husband (8), fiancé (1), son (1) and lover (1).
59% of murders were committed with firearms: Killing methods were the following: pistol (8), pump rifle (4), shotgun (1), knife (7) and sharp object (2).
5 men committed suicide after murdering.
The murderers were aged between 17 to 69 years old; while female victims' ages differed from 18 to 77 in August.
Murder cases were reported in the following cities: Adana, Ankara (2), Antalya, Aydın, Balıkesir, Diyarbakır (3), Erzurum, Eskişehir, Giresun, İstanbul (2), İzmir, Kırşehir, Kocaeli, Manisa, Muğla, Samsun, Sivas and Urfa.
Rape
In August, men raped 20 women and teenage girls; 20 women were forced to prostitution.
2 of 20 rape victims were Syrian refugees, one of them was disabled and two of them were tourists.
75 of women were raped by acquaintances.
A man raped her ex-wife’s home mate and made her ex-wife listen to the raping voices on the phone.
One of the rapists said in a police station “I raped her since she was a foreigner. She was prettier than my wife so she attracted me,” while another one said to the journalists “Hey, take my photo! A nice one, a handsome one.”
15% of the rapists threatened women with firearms and/or sharp objects.
15% of the rapists were released after their testimony had been taken; 35 of them were arrested; other rape cases didn’t take place on the media.
Perpetrators were identified as follows: acquaintance (3), father (1), ex-husband (1), men from social networks (2), colleague (1), brother-in-law (1), neighbor (1), lover (1), chauffeur (1), friends (3) and stranger (1).
35% of the rape cases took place in apartments. Rape venues were listed as apartments (10), workplace (2), market (1), woods (2), hotel (1), street (1) and dormitory (1).
Rape cases were reported in the following cities: Adana (3), Antalya (2), Aydın, Bolu, Bursa (2), İstanbul (3), İzmir (4), Manisa and Samsun (3).
Battery-assault
In August, men battered 37 women.
Two women got gravely wounded since they wanted to divorce. A Syrian refugee was stabbed by her husband. Another woman was stabbed even though she filed a claim against her husband.
A man battered four family members since his daughter wanted to go to university. He said “Go and join Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS) instead of learning,” and he was released. Battered women weren’t out under protection.
46% of women were battered by their partners while 24% of women were battered by their relatives: Perpetrators were identified as follows: husband (16), ex-husbands (3), lover (1), relative (5), father (3), friend (2), brother (1), father-in-law (1), daughter’s ex-fiancé (1), daughter’s ex-lover (1), neighbor (1), customer (1), lover (1) and stranger (1).
In August 27% of women were battered by knives, 13.5 % of women were battered by firearms: 21 women were battered. 10 women were stabbed. 5 women were battered by pistol. A woman was strangled
The perpetrators were aged between 30 and 75, while female victims' ages differed from 17 to 45 in August.
Battery/Assault cases were reported in the following cities in August: Adana, Afyon, Aksaray (5), Antep, Bolu (2), Çorum, Diyarbakır (5), Edirne, Erzurum, Eskişehir, İzmir (2), Kocaeli (4), Konya, Kütahya, Mersin, Muğla, Sakarya, Samsun (2), Trabzon (3) and Zonguldak (2).
Harassment
In August 6 women and teenage girls were sexually harassed.
Three women were harassed in the street while another woman was raped in her house. A teenage girl was raped in an apartment entrance. A man threatened his wife with death.
The perpetrators were aged between 27 and 35, while female victims' ages differed from 12 to 51 in August.
Sexual harassment incidents were reported in the following cities in August: Nevşehir (3), Manisa, Tekirdağ and Niğde.
Regional distribution
In August 2015, 105 cases of male violence, murder, attempted murder, harassment, sexual violence, rape and battery were reported.
Incidents were distributed according to regions as follows: Marmara (32%), Aegean (15%), Mediterranean (10.5%), Black Sea (15%), Eastern-Anatolia (2%), Central Anatolia (15%) and South-Eastern Anatolia (9.5%).
* bianet's tally doesn't include all femicide cases, it only includes women who were murdered by men and it also doesn't include violence cases which aren't a part of social gender.
We don't include the numbers of unidentified murders and crimes which were committed by mentally ill persons.
Employees of Hürriyet told bianet that a group of people saying Allahu Akbar and shouting the name of the President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan broke the glasses of Hürriyet Daily's building and scattered the tables and computers in the first floor.
After the first attack, the crowd retreated when security guards fired their guns up in the air.
The crowd carrying stick and stones shouted slogans: “martyrs are immortal, our land is indivisible!” Some people from the crowd tore up the flag of Hürriyet Daily.
Hürriyet Daily’s Editor-in-Chief, Sedat Ergin, went to the daily’s building at midnight.
Ergin later told CNNTürk:
“You see that perpetrators are from AKP and they don’t even hide it. They shouted slogans in the President Erdoğan’s favour. We examine the news that we made if it is right or wrong. Even if it is wrong, you can’t attack with stick and stones. You can’t give justification for attacking with stick and stones in a democratic, legal state. (EKN/BD)
Click here to read the article in Turkish
After the explosion, an armed conflict broke out between military and PKK (Kurdistan Workers’ Party) members.
According to the news of Fırat News Agency, Press Connection Center of Peoples’ Defense Forces (HPG) said 15 soldiers were killed and many weapons were captured.
Peoples’ Democratic Party (HDP) Leader Selahattin Demirtaş offered condolences for the ones who lost their lives in Dağlıca district and repeated his calling for peace:
"No matter how hard the conditions are, each way except the insistence on peace and fellowship moves us away from humanity.”
Click here to read the article in Turkish
According to the statement of HDP, the names of people who were shot dead by police: Cemile Çağırga (10), Sait Çağdavul (19), Mehmet Emin Levent (21).
The deceased baby, Mehmet Tahir Yaramış, was 35-days old.
According to the news of Yüksekovahaber.com, an armored vehicle allegedly opened fire against Cemile Çağırga and the girl died. The body of Çağırga has been kept at her home due to the police blockade.
Again according to the news of Yüksekovahaber.com, Osman Çağlı (18) was shot dead by snipers.
Click here to read the article in Turkish
According to Radikal Newspaper, Thomas Bruning, Netherlands Association of Journalists General Secretary told ANP:
Lawyer Sarya Özcan told bianet that detention period of journalist and detainees was extended and Geerdink would be put on trial tomorrow.
Reporters without Borders (RSF) reacted to the detention of Geerdink.
RSF called for Turkey’s government to give up oppression against foreign journalists in Turkey and reminded Vice News journalists were arrested a few days earlier.
HDP İstanbul provincial organization told via its twitter account that 126 HDP headquarters were attacked:
Ankara
In Beypazarı district of Ankara, a group of people attacked Kurds and set fire some apartments and cars.
Tekirdağ
In Çorlu district of Tekirdağ, approximately 6 thousand people put down the party signboard and displayed the Turkish flag. The crowd tried to lynch HDP Tekirdağ Co-Chair Şehnaz Kaya.
Balıkesir
İzmir
In Dikili district of İzmir province, a group of people broke the glasses of HDP headquarters and put down the HDP flag and displayed Turkish flag instead. Bergama,
İstanbul
Mersin
The crowd attacked Kurdish tradesmen and then municipality buses in Erdemli district.
Erzurum
Click here to read the article in Turkish
Human Rights Association (İHD) Chairperson Öztürk Özdoğan told bianet that İHD made a call last week; a delegation including 3 members from İHD and a person from Şırnak Bar Association went to Northern Iraq by crossing Habur Border Gate lead by İHD Vice Chairperson Raci Bilici.
İHD delegation was waiting for proper conditions since September 4 to take kidnapped customs officers back. The delegation and customs officers are returning Turkey today.
10 customs officers performing their duties at Üzüm Border Gate in Hakkari province were captured by PKK members on August 10, 2015. 11 customs officers working at Kapıköy Border Gate in Van province near Iran border and a chauffeur were abducted by PKK on August 21 after the end of the shift. A female customs officer and chauffeur had been released two days later. (AB/ÇT/BD)
Click here to read the article in Turkish
This morning, police teams who were guarding customs officers working at Dilucu Gate Border near Turkey and Nakhichevan Autonomous Republic were attacked.
PKK blasted the explosive planted earlier while the police vehicle was passing near.
An investigation has been launched after the bombing attack. (NV/BD)
In 2014 local elections, Kaya and other Co-Mayor Cengiz Kök from DBP took 91% of the votes.
What happened?
Sara Kaya’s home was raided by police and she was arrested by showing declaration of self-government reason on August 28 and then was released upon judicial control decision.
However, Public Prosecutor of Nusaybin objected and Kaya was arrested for a second time for being a member of ‘illegal organization’ and was sent to Mardin E-Type Prison.
Kaya was transferred to Ankara Sincan Prison on September 2. (YY/BD)
Head Office of HDP in Ankara was attacked by hundreds of people according to HDP İstanbul deputy Garo Paylan and Paylan added there were not enough policemen in front of the building.
* Three HDP members climbed to the roof and then headed to the adjacent building.
A group protesting the recent death of soldiers and policemen set fire the HDP building in Antalya province, in Mediterranean Region.
According to cnntürk.com, a group from 2,000 people marching by carrying Turkish flags set fire a restaurant next to the HDP building; flames engulfed the HDP building.
Polis used tear gas against the group and the fire was extinguished by fire crew and Riot Control Vehicles (TOMA). Restaurant and HDP building became useless.
Besides, in many provinces of Turkey like İstanbul, Mersin, Aksaray, Bursa, Çanakkale, Amasya, Ordu, Çorum and Elazığ, HDP buildings and headquarters were set fire and party signboards were ripped off.
Last evening, at 9 p.m. a group of people who were allegedly supporters of Justice and Development Party (AKP) saying Allahu Akbar forced the door of Hürriyet’s building in İstanbul.
The group had come in front of the building by three trucks.
After entering the building from the main gate, the perpetrators were thrown out by security guards.
Employees said there weren’t enough policemen in front of Hürriyet’s building.
"Riot police came half an hour later”
Ali Örnek from Hürriyet Foreign news said the policemen came half an hour later after the attack via his twitter account.
100-150 people shouted slogans “Eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth!”
According to the website of Hürriyet, none of the perpetrators was arrested.
Hürriyet had been attacked on September 6
On September 6, perpetrators had attacked and damaged the building of Hürriyet Daily.
One of the perpetrators was AKP İstanbul deputy Abdurrahim Boynukalın. Boynukalın said regardless of the consequences of the general elections which would be held on November 1, they would make Recep Tayyip Erdoğan Head of the State.
"They vandalized again. I ran for my life.
90 km away
HDP deputies Ali Haydar Konca and Müslüm Doğan met government officials in Mardin province but couldn’t come to a conclusion.
HDP Co-Chair Selahattin Demirtaş:
“People of Cizre aren’t abandoned. We will march towards Cizre and we don’t even violate the law on meetings and demonstrations.
“We are 90 kilometers away from Cizre now. They say ‘We don’t allow you to pass for your own safety.’ There are 120 thousand people in Cizre. If 120 thousand civilians’ life safety is under the threat, we are also under the threat.”
"Prime Minister didn't allow us to leave Mardin"
HDP İstanbul deputy Filiz Kerestecioğlu told bianet:
“Two ministers and approximately 40 deputies are here. Is it legal or politically correct to shut down the entrance of a city? There is neither electricity nor water in Cizre. You should go and see yourself. We will march as long as we can.
“I pity for the soldiers on duty there. They are waiting for under the bare sun for days.
* Photo Credits: Sertaç Kayar @sertacamed / Mahmut Oral @mahmutoral_
Elçi told bianet:
Constitutional Court rejected the complaint of Diyarbakır Bar President.
"Constitutional Court doesn't respect the constitution," reacted Elçi and said he resorted to European Court of Human Rights (ECtHR).
Click here to read the article in Turkish
"On the seventh day of curfew in Cizre,
"As a teacher who have been teaching for six years in Cizre, I am ashamed of my humanity. Curfew, so called security for my life, has been going on since September 4 at 8 p.m. I am ashamed of my humanity. In the 21st century, the state attacks its people with cannonballs.
"The state will probably say 'Teach your students the love of their native country, nation, flag and police.' Can I make those people who lost their friends, relatives, brothers and sisters love the killers of their loved ones? Can you make it?
"There is so much pain to write about. I am living in the dark, we are living in the dark. Don't bother saying 'Is there anyone out there?' There are 140,000 people here. Please help for the sake of humanity..." –A teacher in a forbidden zone-
bianet reached the writer of this letter by the phone on September 10.
Anonymous teacher told us the media couldn’t monitor the incidents in Cizre since they couldn’t even require their basic needs because of the curfew.
“There is no armory here, civilians are killed”
Letter-writer stated the President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan and Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoğlu didn’t tell the truth.
“There is no armory here, civilians are killed. People are trying to protect themselves. Youngsters in their twenties put up barricades to protect themselves. Kids playing outside of their apartments are killed.”
“You can’t tell the bullet where to shoot”
Primary school teacher stated Peoples’ Democratic Party (HDP) delegation’s coming to Cizre was hope-inspiring but the coming was prevented.
"A nation totally antagonist is born”
The teacher added they couldn’t receive information due to power blackout, a kid was shot by a sniper and five dead bodies were kept in cold storage.
“Cizre’s population is 140,000. They can’t have 400 deputies from here. Youngsters in their twenties put up barricades to protect themselves. A nation totally antagonist is born.” (İUE/BK/BD)
Click here to read the article in Turkish
Sarıyıldız shared the named via his twitter account:
HDP deputy reminded a 35-day-old baby died since he couldn’t be taken to hospital and he was also a civil.
What happened?
The death toll of the first curfew: 21 civilians
The first curfew in Cizre which was declared on September 4 was lifted on September 12 at 7 a.m. 21 civilians were killed during the curfew.
Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoğlu claimed not a single civil died in Cizre while the Minister of the Interior, Selami Altınok, stated 40 policemen and 51 civilians got wounded while two civilians died from September 7 to September 9 across Turkey.
Peoples’ Democratic Party (HDP) Şırnak deputy Faysal Sarıyıldız had shared via his twitter account the names of people who were killed during the clashes or prevented by the police from going to the hospital and died.
16 Cizre people were buried:
Magazine is pulled off, its twitter account is banned
According to the news of Hürriyet Daily, the last issue of Nokta was pulled off the shelf upon the request of İstanbul Police Department and the decision of Public Prosecution of İstanbul.
The charge against Nokta was “making propaganda of illegal organization and insulting the President”.
Besides, official twitter account of Nokta would be banned according to the court decision but the account is accessible now.
Last issue of Nokta
Nokta prepared an image depicting the President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan while taking a selfie in front of a funeral of a soldier.
Journalist Fatih Vural from Nokta told bianet:
“However, Nokta hasn’t faced such a reaction even when it published those brave news and images.
Managing Editor of Nokta Magazine, Murat Çapan, has been detained by the police this evening. (EA/EKN/HK/BD)
Click here to read the article in Turkish
This publication has been produced within the partnership with Osservatorio Balcani e Caucaso for the European Centre for Press and Media Freedom (ECPMF), co-funded by the European Commission. The contents of this publication are the sole responsibility of IPS Communication Foundation and can in no way be taken to reflect the views of the European Union.
The curfew in Sur district of Diyarbakır province had been going on since September 13 at 5 a.m.
Nimetullah Erdoğmuş from Peoples’ Democratic Party (HDP) said the curfew would be lifted today according to the security units.
Erdoğmuş depicted the city as a ghost town and the people were waiting for the curfew to be lifted in the city square.
HDP Diyarbakır deputy Çağlar Demirel:
“Sur was calm before the curfew was declared. The city was blockaded by the police.
“HDP Leader Selahattin Demirtaş wasn’t allowed to hold a meeting in Sur district. We heard gun reports yesterday.
“Diyarbakır people wanted to enter Sur wondering what happened there but we didn’t come to a conclusion in spite of speaking to the officials.
“Police used tear gas and fired plastic bullets from armored vehicles to disperse the crowd. I was hit in the legs and taken to the hospital. Now I rest at home.
“People want to go outside but they can’t due to the snipers. It was claimed that three people were shot in front of their apartments and then were taken to the hospital.
Nimetullah Erdoğmuş: Like a ghost town
Nimetullah Erdoğmuş from HDP:
“Security forces have bene using disproportionate force for two days. Sur looks like a ghost town. You can’t see anybody in the street.
“Tradesmen are miserable now since there is no electricity and the phone sometimes goes dead.
According to Erdoğmuş, the security units said the curfew in Sur would be lifted today in hours.
The curfew has been lifted at 5 p.m. on September 14, by the Governorship of Diyarbakır. (BK/BD)
Click here to read the article in Turkish
Yalçınbayır emphasized that AKP members against AKP’s practices in the field of freedom of expression, democracy and the violation of human rights have kept silent until today and those members won’t even manage to form a new political organism.
Yalçınbayır:
“AKP promised democracy but…”
“A political party cannot be free without freeing itself from these authorities.
“When you evaluate AKP in the field of freedom, human rights, convenience with regulations and programs, you see it fails.
“Turkey is ranked as the 90th since…”
“Political parties’ perception of in-party democracy and human rights reflects on the management of the country.”
“Turkey and our political parties are ranked as the 90th across the world in the field of democracy.
“AKP was founded in order to be free from despotism. Deputies of parliament aren’t like automated machines. They can decide where to participate in.
“Tendency to authoritarianism and the level of democracy…”
“You see there is only one candidate for the presidency and one list of members…
“It makes us see the tendency to authoritarianism and the level of democracy in our country.
“Not only AKP…”
“It is not only valid for AKP but also for other political parties. If a country is ruled by such a ruling party and 40% of the people vote for them, the perception of democracy in Turkey is evident.
“They have kept silent until today”
(Upon the question about the names like Beşir Atalay, Bülent Arınç, Ali Babacan, Mehmet Şimşek and Hüseyin Çelik who are excluded from the party management)
“Including Abdullah Gül, they all have kept silent until today against the violations of the party regulations. All of them indirectly supported today’s situation.
The boat sank between Datça and Kos Island of Greece in a region of trans-boundary waters.
5 Coast Guards Boats have been sent to the region.
Another refugee boat sank near İzmir province; 2 refugees died, 11 refugees were saved.
2500 refugees died in 2015 in the Mediterranean Sea
According to United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), more than 2,500 refugees died trying to reach Europe in 2015 and in the last eight months 300 thousand refugees entered Europe from Mediterranean Sea. Turkey is an important transit point for refugees.
Tokuzlu added Turkey should press EU and the U.S.A for collaboration.
According to the datum of UNHCR, there are 4 million Syrian refugees. UNHCR expects the number to reach 4,27 million until the end of 2015:
1.805.255 (Turkey), 249.726 (Iraq), 629.128 (Jordan), 132.375 (Egypt), 1.172.753 (Lebanon) and 24.055 (other places). (EA/BD)
Photo Credit: Ali Ballı, AA
Botan emphasized A.A (16) from Van and M.O.(14) from Denizli were battered by the police and then detained.
“It was claimed that A.A.’s skull was fractured by gunstock, dragged meters away and detained while M.O was insulted and abused with remarks “Dirty Kurd, traitor!”
“Why were children taken to Anti-terror branch?
“Why weren’t the teenagers accompanied by a social worker and a child psychologist?
Other questions
“Was the reason behind the skull fraction of A.A found out? Did the policemen oppress A.A. to say he fell and broke his skull himself?
*Which precautions do you take for child rights to be meticulously protected by security forces? (YY/BD)
Click here to read the article in Turkish
“Nominate women as candidates, vote for women to lay down arms, to end the chaos, to turn hate speech into love, to live in peace and solidarity and for permanent peace,” said KA.DER.
Turkey has hard times because of disagreement, oppressive patriarchal policy and its uncertainty, increasing terrorist attacks, provocations, violent behaviors after June 7 general elections.
We are living surrounded by the violence and injustice.
Women suffer the most as usual.
In such an environment, we have worries for general elections which will be held on November 1.
We are sick and tired of male representatives who are unable to listen and understand each other, approach problems destructively and feed on conflicts.
Today is the day to listen to each other.
Today is the day to understand each other.
Today is the day to give the positive communication a chance.
Today is the day to compromise not to lose so young people and not to make their relatives suffer.
Today is the day for more women to participate in the politics and parliament “for permanent peace.”
Turkey needs more women than ever to resolve things peacefully not violently and oppressively.
Women are the resolution.
The peace can only be effectively built by women.
We call for political party leaders: “Nominate women as candidates, vote for women to lay down arms, to end the chaos, to turn hate speech into love, to live in peace and solidarity and for permanent peace.”
In Nusaybin district of Mardin province, the bomb planted on the road was blasted at 11.30 p.m. while an armored police vehicle was passing.
Three policemen died; one of them was a police captain. A police officer got severely wounded and was taken to Nusaybin State Hospital.
Bombing attack in Hakkari
Another bombing attack was carried out at 6 p.m. in Hakkari province in eastern Turkey.
Planted on a highway between Hakkari and Van provinces by PKK, hand-made explosives were blasted while an armored vehicle was passing.
Two police officers died, two policemen got injured. (EKN/BD)
* Photo Credit: Yılmaz Kazandıoğlu / AA
ESB requires court decision to give information
Turkey's Union of Internet Providers (ESB) said they couldn’t give information until bianet has an order of the court.
ESB told bianet may be informed about the court decision but it was not necessary.
What happened?
Police raided Nokta Magazine on September 14, 2015. Nokta prepared and illustration showing the President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan taking a selfie in front of the funeral of a soldier. The last issue of the magazine couldn’t be distributed and Managing Editor of Nokta, Murat Çapan, was detained. (EA/HK/BD)
Click here to read the article in Turkish
Women took the road this morning from İstanbul went to Mardin at first and then arrived in Cizre, Şırnak. The group was welcomed by Peoples’ Democratic Party (HDP) deputy Aycan İrmez and a female representative from Şırnak Bar Association in Cizre.
Women are offering their condolences to the families of civilians who were killed during curfew.
What happened?
Women’s Initiative for Peace:
Women’s Initiative for Peace members are:
Alp wanted her mother who is a member of Women’s Initiative for Peace to give letter to a same aged child in Cizre. Alp sent toys along with the letter.
Here is Alp’s letter:
Hello My Friend,
I speak to you from İstanbul and I know that you are in trouble nowadays. I feel your sorrow. I pray for peace to come and for all of us to live. I hear news from your city and I know it isn't right but don't bother I'll say stop to all of these when I grow up. I will be very glad if you write me back.
12-year-old Alp sent a letter to the children in Cizre along with his mother who is a member of Women’s Initiative for Peace and said: “I hear news from your city and I know it isn’t right but don’t bother I‘ll say stop to all of these when I grow up.”
Same-aged Arjen living in Cizre responded to Alp:
Hello my dear friend,
Hello, my friend. I received your letter in Cizre. I thank you so much for your letter. We can build a fellowship bridge for our future since you have empathy and sympathy to our situation here. Our languages or cultures can be different but we mutually have humanity. Our mutual value is the democracy. Us kids of our country and the world; we should be conscious for saying stop to the war. Only then we can live fairly and humanly in whole wide world. We should listen to each other.
Best regards, Arjen
Tarhan talked to bianet that he was placed a charge of being deserter in March 2015 and a warrant was issued.
Tarhan was taken to prosecution and then to recruiting office in Aydın province in Aegean Region of Turkey:
“They granted me two days to be enlisted and then released me in the recruiting office. It means the time of “civil death” started for me.
What happened?
Tarhan became conscientious objector on October 27, 2001, detained on April 8, 2005 and was sent to the military unit in Tokat province on April 10, 2005.
Tarhan objected to wearing military uniform and to performing compulsory military service and so he was sent to Sivas Military Prison.
Conscientious objector went on a hunger strike since his hair and beard were cut off without his permission and he was battered there by other soldiers because he refused to perform his military service. Tarhan resorted to the European Court of Human Rights (ECtHR). European Court ordered Turkey to pay 10 thousand Euros for the penalty.
In February 2015, Sivas Criminal Court of Military sentenced Tarhan to 15 months in prison with insubordination charges and ordered him to pay 2,647 Euros. Tarhan said he would resort to the Supreme Court. (EKN/BD)
Click here to read the article in Turkish
Cemal had written a column on website T24 titled “Sultan in his palace is responsible for the bloodshed!”
It is the first investigation launched against journalist Cemal since 1971 Turkish coup d'état that was carried out on March 12.
Hasan Cemal’s column:
"I emphasize it one more time:
Sultan in his palace is the only responsible person for the bloodshed.
If blood and tears roll in again in Turkey, no wonder Tayyip Erdoğan is responsible for all of it; not anybody…
Since Erdoğan couldn’t accept being defeated on June 7 General Elections.
Since Erdoğan is digging hellholes in front of Turkey to pave the way for a new election.
In fact, Turkey didn’t have to live in this bloody chaos.
Turkey lives in this chaos due to Erdoğan’s persistence of re-election.
If a coalition had been formed on June 7, we wouldn’t have found ourselves in the middle of the blood bath.
If leaders of AKP (Justice and Development Party) and CHP (Republican People’s Party) had shouldered responsibility, Turkey wouldn’t have been dragged into the warfare and violence by anyone.
Turkey would have been normal.
There would have been relaxation for Turkey.
Resolution process wouldn’t have been distorted.
Positive steps in the field of foreign policy and the economy would have been taken.
Turkey would have recovered her morale.
Nothing happened. “
Who is Hasan Cemal?
Hasan Cemal graduated from Ankara University with a Political Science Degree. He started journalism with Magazine Devrim and continued to work at Magazine Yeni Ortam, Anka Agency and newspapers like Günaydın, Cumhuriyet and Milliyet.
We went to Esenler Bus Terminal of İstanbul and saw many refugees waiting there. Riot policemen were waiting in front of the Cumhuriyet Mosque in the terminal and they weren’t allowing refugees to enter the mosque with back packs and handbags.
Refugees want the gates to be opened
* Edirne Bus Terminal
Refugees tell they couldn’t make a living in Turkey and they wanted to go Europe. Everyone in the terminal from terminal employees to passengers talk about the refugees.
Asylum seekers don’t seem overreacted against Turkey, they just want the gates to be opened.
Passengers’ reactions against refugees
Voices increase at the entrance of bus terminal when the passengers see the refugees… Some say “Well, refugees want to go Europe as if they were going to be looked after much better by European Government than Turkey’s Government,” blaming the refugees. Others emphasize an uncertain future awaits the refugees.
Officials whom bianet talked to said even the gates were open for refugees they wouldn’t be allowed to enter Europe. (BK/BD)
* Photo Credit: Beyza Kural / Edirne-İstanbul / bia
TGS President Uğur Güç, IFJ President Jim Boumelha, European Union’s Delegation of Turkey Political Affairs, Press and Information Department Vice President Andreea Schmidt and TGC President Turgay Olcayto made the opening speech.
Journalists Burcu Karakaş, Şirin Payzın, Kadri Gürsel and Barış İnce were speakers while Ragıp Duran started the first session of the conference.
Duran: The law has never been abused so much before in Turkey
Ragıp Duran:
Journalist and TV host Şirin Payzın:
"We shouldn’t take column writers that threaten us seriously since they want to promote themselves by attacking us. One of the main missions of a journalist is getting people’s opinions but it becomes a crime nowadays. Moreover, it is perceived as a terrorist offense.”
Recently dismissed from Milliyet Daily, Burcu Karakaş:
İnce: Journalists should be defended legally
Barış İnce from BirGün Daily:
"After 1980 Coup d’etat, capitalists captured the media. If we don’t discuss the media proprietors, we won’t be free from the oppression. All journalists should be defended legally, I suppose.
Kadri Gürsel:
Governor Su said the curfew was declared in order to protect people’s security of life and property by removing ditches and barricades planted explosives and traps inside. Su stated 7 guerrillas were killed and 25 police officers got wounded during the operations.
“Health services ran smoothly”
It was stated by the Governor that health services in the hospitals ran smoothly during the curfew but Su didn’t mention about the death of civilians.
HDP: Basic needs weren’t met
Peoples’ Democratic Party (HDP) Urfa deputy Ziya Çalışkan told bianet on September 10:
“Peoples’ basic needs weren’t met during the curfew; firemen who tried to put out the fire were attacked by the policemen and civilians died before reaching the hospital.
Turkish Medical Association’s President Beyazıt İlhan told medical workers were attacked.
“Bakeries were open”
Governor Su stated bakeries, markets and pharmacies were open and accessible for people.
Cizre people: No one can buy bread from the bakery
A public officer told bianet:
“There are armored vehicles in Cizre; you can’t even move. No one can buy bread from the bakery. People make their breads at home.
“I thank all people and tradesmen in Cizre for their patience and common sense. We will determinedly continue to eliminate all kinds of activities that threaten our people’s security of life and property, disturb the peace and our fellowship.”
Şırnak Bar Association makes an allegation
Şırnak Bar Association made an allegation related to 21 dead people who were killed during the curfew in Cizre. (ÇT)
Click here to read the article in Turkish
Avcı who was also the lawyer of Hidayet Karaca, President of Samanyolu Publishing Group, was sent to Atatürk Training and Research Hospital in İzmir for the medical report after he was taken to Police Department’s Anti-terror Branch.
According to the news of Bugün Daily, Avcı would be taken to İstanbul with a special team. Gültekin Avcı was detained within the scope of an investigation launched by Public Prosecution of İstanbul.
Who is Gültekin Avcı?
Avcı graduated from İzmir 9 Eylül University. He started the occupation in 1991.
According to Anadolu Agency, planted by Kurdistan Workers’ Party (PKK) before, hand-made explosives blasted while military convoys were passing.
Governorship of Van announced that related operations and investigations would go on.
Governorship of Van: 24 security officers got wounded
On September 21 at 22.20 the first attack and on September 22 at 01.47 a second attack was carried out, Governorship of Van indicated by a written statement. (BK/BD)
* Photo Credit: Cemal Aşan / Van / AA
According to the decision of the district election board, 48 thousand 687 voters living in these quarters will cast their ballots in other quarters of Cizre.
65% of the Cizre’s population live in these quarters
Dicle News Agency (DİHA) says 65% of the Cizre’s population live in these quarters which won’t have ballot boxes.
The decision of district’s election board wasn’t announced to the political parties.
“There isn’t any security issues unless the police attack”
Peoples’ Democratic Party (HDP) Cizre District Co-Chair, Ali Akdeniz, told DİHA there wouldn’t be any security issues in the district unless the police attacked.
Governorship of Bitlis Requests “mobile system”
Governorship of Bitlis (a province in eastern Turkey), Ahmet Çınar, requested “mobile system of voting” for voters in certain provinces and districts. (EKN/BD)
* Photo Credit: Çiğdem Mater
Konca and Doğan offered their resignations to Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoğlu.
Prime Minister: They can decide whether they stay or go
Prime Ministry made a written statement related to the resignations:
"Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoğlu acknowledged the resignations of Ministers Ali Haydar Konca and Müslüm Doğan.
After they resigned, former Ministers Konca and Doğan explained the reason behind the resignations in HDP General Headquarters in Ankara.
* Photo Credit: Volkan Furuncu / Ankara / AA
According to the Article 299, a person who insults the President shall be sentenced to 1 to 4 years in prison.
Evrensel’s lead writer İhsan Çaralan and other columnists Mustafa Köz and Erol Aral also were opened investigation for their columns.
In the first three weeks of September, at least 19 media employees were sued:
Caricaturist Musa Kart (Cumhuriyet), journalists and columnists Ekrem Dumanlı (Zaman),Ertuğrul Özkök (Hürriyet), Yavuz Baydar (Bugün), Tayfun Talipoğlu(Yurt), Onur Erem (BirGün), Murat Çapan (Nokta), Hasan Cemal (T24),Aytekin Gezici (Twitter), Gökçe Fırat Çulhaoğlu (Türk Solu), Atilla Taş(Meydan), Gülizar Baki (Meydan), Levent Kenez (Meydan), Ahmet Altan Vural Nasuhbeyoğlu (Evrensel), Mehmet Akif Koşar (Evrensel),İhsan Çaralan (Evrensel), Erol Aral (Evrensel) and Mustafa Köz(Evrensel).
Before September…
Many columnists and editor-in-chiefs; Özgür Mumcu (Cumhuriyet), Barış Pehlivan(Odatv.com), Ender İmrek (Evrensel), Barış İnce (BirGün) were put on trial according to the Article 299 before September. Judicial oppression from many different politic people also affects the universities and activist people. (EÖ/BD)
“He who supports Kurdistan Workers’ Party (PKK) will be put on trial,” said Özdağ.
Özdağ made a written statement yesterday:
“People who are alienated from their country, state and nation in Turkey are so-called intellectuals.
“Intellectuals who supported HDP forget they also support PKK under the name of intellectuality.
“Don’t they know HDP supports PKK?”
“Don’t these intellectuals know that HDP supports autonomy and Kurdistan? Don’t they know HDP supports PKK and HDP is a political extension of PKK?
“They shouldn’t forget something… PKK is responsible for all the bloodshed not the Presidential Palace. He who blames the Palace for the terrorism just talks nonsense.
"Our soldiers lose their legs and arms during the bombing attacks but HDP still doesn’t say to PKK to lay down arms, they just talk about negotiations.
“He who supports PKK will be put on trial someday no matter he is from the media or the parliament.
Signatories who signed the text titled “The Palace will be Overthrown, People will Win!” are these:
Abdullah Aydın, Adil Yalçın, Ahmet Yıldız, Akan Çelik, Ali Çerkezoğlu, Ali Ergin Demirhan, Ali Mert, Ali Özyurt, Ali Yiğit, Alper Dizdar, Arzu Çerkezoğlu, Aslı Erdoğan, Ayhan Erdoğan, Aynur Ermiş, Ayşegül Tözeren, Baki Düzgün, Barbaros Tantan, Barış Atay, Can Soyer, Cihan Uzunçarşılı Baysal, Cihan Ziya Tuğal, Coşkun Canıvar, Deniz Dülgeroğlu, Deniz Kıyafet, Dilek Tunalı, Doğan Halis, E. Ahmet Tonak, Emine Girgin, Emre Gürcanlı, Eriş Bilaloğlu, Erkin Özalp, Ertan Yılmaz,Esra Sert, Faruk Eren, Ferda Koç, Fergül Yücel, Funda Başaran, Gazi Çağlar, Gül Köksal, Gülendam Şan, Gülsüm-Sami Elvan, Gürsel Kaya,Hakan Mıhçı, Halis Koç, Haluk Yurtsever, Hamide Yiğit, Hande Arpat, Hasan Demir, Hayri Erdoğan, Hüseyin Demirdizen, Hüseyin Kargın, İbrahim Eke, İbrahim Kara, İbrahim Ulutaş, İlhan Akalın, İlhan Yiğit, İlkay Akkaya, İmre Azem, İnönü Alpat, Işıtan Gündüz, İsmet Akça, Kasım Akbaş, Kemal Aytaç, Mahir Ulutaş, Mehmet Ali Levent, Mehmet Ümit Erdem, Merih Cemal Taymaz, Metin Bakkalcı, Metin Çulhaoğlu, Metin Özuğurlu, Mücella Yapıcı, Murat Kocaman, Mustafa Görkem Doğan, Mustafa Peköz, Mustafa Sönmez, Neriman Usta, Nihal Kemaloğlu, Nuray Yılmaz, Nurdan Çaypınarlı, Osman Köse, Özgür Urfa, Özlem Yılmaz,Pınar Hocaoğulları, Savaş Al, Sayat Tekir, Sema Solaklı, Şebnem Oğuz, Serdar Aslan, Şinasi Dursun, Tahsin İşbilen, Taner Gören, Tayfun Budak,Tuncay Çelen, Yaşar Ayaşlı, Yıldız İlhan, Yusuf Doğan Çetinkaya, Zafer Ayden, Zeynep Çelik, Ziynet Özçelik, Zuhal Çetin Özkan. (EKN/BD)
* Photo Creditf: Ferdi Uzun / AA
24 paged report includes observations, opinions and requests of MAZLUMDER.
Observations
* Telephone network of the district isn’t working. Water supply network was damaged due to bombing attacks so the water supply was cut off.
* Electric transformers were damaged by both security forces and YDG-H so the electric was off during the curfew.
* Snipers shot down people; injured or killed them.
* 12-13 armored vehicles became useless due to bombing attacks.
* Security forces shelled quarters of Cizre district; apartments and gardens were destroyed.
Opinions
* Everything paused during the curfew; electricity, water and telephone lines were off, public services stopped and Cizre people were deprived of basic needs like food and water. Most of the injured civilians couldn’t be taken to the hospitals and died on the way.
* The state intervened in with armored vehicles, heavy guns and explosives and violated the inherent right to life by punishing collectively.
* The curfew, bombardments, the sound of clashes and untrue statements of the state officials about the number of the casualties made Cizre people traumatic and angry.
Requests
* PKK should shun civil environments and YDG-H should stop using violence and illegality.
* The state officials should apologize since they ignored the death of civilians.
* Security forces who had willful neglect and defect should be laid off and the legal procedures should be issued against them and so the public conscious should be relieved. (EA/BD)
Click here to read the article in Turkish
According to the news of Hürriyet daily, a Kurdistan Workers’ Party (PKK) member from Bismil was killed in Şırnak province, in southeastern Turkey so the clashes broke out in the city.
A curfew had been declared in Bismil on September 8 and it was lifted a day later.
Peoples’ Democratic Party (HDP) Diyarbakır deputy Sibel Yiğitalp tweeted Şimşek’s mother had a risk of death and Elif was killed due to security forces’ mortars while Police Department stated the child died of a rocket launcher attack from PKK.
5 thousand people attended Demirtaş’s meeting in DIMA Sport Center in Bergedorf, Hamburg.
Demirtaş answered the questions of press members and briefly said:
“HDP endeavors the most for peace”
“Disinformation attempts for taking votes have adverse effects. Pro-AKP media publishes false news, lies and defamations. However, public opinion knows that HDP is the political party which endeavors the most to stop clashes and the war.
“Even one vote is important”
The lawyer of the citizen of France, Lecaille and the citizen of Germany, Freitag, Arzu Aydoğan said they were waiting the decision of Governorship and her clients would be deported today or tomorrow.
It was said that United Nations (BM) would assign lawyers for three Syrian refugees while refugees weren’t allowed to see other lawyers. Syrians may be put into refugee camps since it is not possible to deport them.
Lawyer Aydoğan said:
“My clients are being deported because they are ‘foreigners’ not criminals,” and reminded Lecaille and Freitag were charged with disturbing the peace and they were pointed as targets by media labelling them ‘spies’.
“We talk outside the windows”
Activist Ufuk Ahıska from Migrant Solidarity Network:
“We talk with refugees outside the windows; trying to inform and soothe them and illuminate them about their rights and deportation procedures. We want to be sure UN will care about them.” (ÇT/BD)
* Photo Credit: Abdullah Coşkun, Anadolu Agency.
According to DiHA, there was a child among the detainees.
DİHA said detained journalists were searched for gunshot residue.
Journalists: Free media won’t be silent
Freed journalists made a press statement.
Mehmet Ali Ertaş, Association of Free Journalists’ Member of Board, emphasized they were under arrest for seven hours, “The aim of this illegal detention is to silence free media members but free media won’t be silent.”
Editor Ramazan Ölçen from Azadiya Welat daily said free media couldn’t be shut up and they would pursue the truth.
How were they detained?
An armored police vehicle and an armored military vehicle had been attacked in Diyarbakır last evening so the entrance and exit of 13 quarters were closed.
Police launched an investigation and extended the operation to DİHA and Kürdi-Der.
Masum Kaya, one of the lawyers of DİHA, said the raided building belonged to the association and the search warrant should have been issued from governorship not the prosecution. (BK/BD)
* Photo Credit: Gülsen Demir / Twitter
Police vehicle in which officers were patrolling was opened fire by two perpetrators on motorbikes last evening at 8 p.m.
Attackers fled while gravely injured policemen were taken to the hospital and were put into intensive care.
Officers could not be saved despite all medical efforts.
Governor of Adana, Mustafa Büyük, implied the attackers were Kurdistan Workers’ Party (PKK) members. (EKN)
* Photo Credit: Bekir Ömer Fansa / AA
National Intelligence Organization caused it
“It came up that National Intelligence Organization (MİT) caused the massacring bombardment with its intelligence.
According to the soldiers ‘smugglers’ were killed
“New statements show that the offenders of Roboski Massacre are evident and they escape from justice. The state should face the past, put the massacre offenders on trial and then punish them.”
What happened?
On December 28, 2011, 34 people were bombed by fighter jets in Uludere district of Şırnak province in southeastern Turkey.
On June 11, 2013, Public Prosecution of Diyarbakır decided of non-jurisdiction about the case due to “reckless homicide” and sent the case to Military Prosecution of General Staff. Military Prosecution declared to proceed no further on January 7, 2014. Lawyers of the victims’ families objected, but they were rejected. (HK/BD)
Press workers, Journalists’ Association of Turkey (TGC), DİSK-affiliated Basın-İş, Socialist Party of the Oppressed (ESP) and Labor Party (EMEP), Peoples’ Democratic Party (HDP) deputy Hüda Kaya, Levent Tüzel and many people attended the protest.
The detention of 32 journalists was condemned, a call was made for protecting the free media.
“Related to the war policy”
Atlan reminded the website of DİHA has been blocked for 21 times.
“This armed raid inflicted a heavy blow against the freedom of press and freedom of expression in Turkey.”
“We won’t let them gerrymander in any provinces of Kurdistan. That’s why, they wanted to shut the free media up before the re-election. (November 1)
“Our traditions and history proved we won’t surrender these kinds of oppression and violence policies. As workers of DİHA and other Kurdish media, we will continue to be the voice of peoples, beliefs and all marginalized social fractions.
If the media is silenced then the society is silenced…
“We are determined to defend the right to demand information of the society and defend it against all oppressions as before. Finally, we call for all our colleagues to act with solidarity.
Ayşe Belma Dehni: The Memoirs of Cleopatra
From English to Turkish
Margaret George, the Memoirs of Cleopatra, Translator: Ayşe Belma Dehni, Pegasus Publishing House.
"I enjoyed most while translating Margaret George’s the Memoirs of Cleopatra; I took a serious step into the translation with that book.
***
From English to Turkish
Gabriel Garcia Marquez, One Hundred Years of Solitude, Translator: Seçkin Selvi, Can Publishing House.
"It’s been a long time that I read One Hundred Years of Solitude but I remember I was mesmerized, captivated and my perspective of the world, life and humanity changed deeply.
***
From Macedonian to Turkish
Tomislav Osmanli, зад аголот (behind the corner), Translator: Mehmed Yonuz
***
From Russian to Turkish
İvan Lukaş, Гелиболу (Gallipoli), Translator: Sevinç Üçgül, Çeviribilim Publishing House.
Click here to read the article in Turkish
İHD stated they had no clear information about the detention and police operation so they were nervous and asked the releasement of Zana Aksu, Azad Taş and Mirza Ekin.
Unlawful practices:
* The police didn’t remind the suspects their statutory rights and didn’t fulfilled their requests for lawyers.
* İHD Siirt Branch was searched without accompanied lawyers.
* Three computer cases, some books and a bag filled with empty gas canisters were taken by the police from the İHD Siirt branch building.
"İHD managers can’t be accused”
İHD indicated:
"We want to remind that İHD managers can’t be accused based on info and evident acquired from illegal searching and we request immediate releasement of our friends according to the right of personal security and freedom. (HK/BD)
Click here to read the article in Turkish
“Who are the policemen that obstructed press members?”
* Who are the special operation team that battered free media members? Has an investigation been launched against them?
“What is the legal basis for the detentions?
* What is the legal basis for saying to press members ‘We are security forces. We can do anything against people who have reasonable doubt.’
* What is the legal basis for unlawfully keeping waiting 32 free press members for seven hours in a state hospital for medical checkup after the detention?
“What is the reason of searching media members for gunshot residue?
* What is the aim of the state’s security forces to ask detained free media members 'Have you fired guns today?'
* What is the legal basis for searching detained free media members for ‘gunshot residue’?
“Do you have plans to improve the freedom of press?
* Is it a coincidence for this unlawful police raid to be made at the same time when Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoğlu said ‘Press is free in Turkey’?
Three of the perpetrators were captured last night, one of them was caught in the morning.
Hakan: I will go ahead according to my own lights
Taken to the hospital after the attack, bone fractures were located in the rib and nose of Hakan.
Hürriyet daily Editor-in-Chief, Sedat Ergin, Hürriyet columnist Ertuğrul Özkök and Doğan news Agency (DHA) General Director Uğur Cebeci visited Hakan in the hospital.
Ahmet Hakan sent a message via Sedat Ergin:
Perpetrators were detained and taken to the Public Security Branch Office of İstanbul Police Department. Suspects A.G., K.E., F.E. and U.A. stated they quarreled over the traffic and scuffled.
Justice and Development Party (AKP) İstanbul deputy, Abdurrahim Boynukalın, who had participated in the attack against Hürriyet’s building had said:
“It was a mistake not to beat those (journalists) in the course of time.”
Star daily columnist, Cem Küçük, threatened Hakan on September 9 from his column.
Davutoğlu: "Amicable remarks between youngsters…”
Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoğlu commented Boynukalın’s words:
“I don’t approve these kinds of expressions whoever made them. However, these remarks are not deliberate but amicable between youngsters and it does not represent a common intent, either.
Hakan had demanded protection
According to the news of Hürriyet, Hakan’s lawyers demanded protection for him because he was being threatened but couldn’t get an answer from İstanbul Police Department Protection Branch for 17 days.
Boynukalın tweeted
Abdurrahim Boynukalın tweeted after the attack:
CHP Leader Kılıçdaroğlu stated:
"I am deeply sorry. A dear journalist was threatened with death before and then was physically assaulted. The tension of the society worries us. We hope the government makes a stride about the attacks against the media.”
“The Presidential Palace and the government should give up targeting the media”
HDP Co-Chairs Yüksekdağ and Demirtaş made a written statement:
“Attack against Ahmet Hakan is a part of the oppression against the media and media laborers in Turkey. This assault isn’t unexpected since the President Erdoğan quarrels with the media, accuses them, ruling party’s deputy (Abdurrahim Boynukalın) raids Hürriyet daily’s building, criticizing journalists are dismissed, and columnists are put on trial.
“It is worrying that perpetrators are organized. Who are the instigators?
“This criminal assault is an intimidation for all the media.
“The Presidential Palace and the government should give up targeting the media, punish the perpetrators and instigators by putting them on trial from now on.”
“We condemn the violence against journalists”
AKP Spokesperson Çelik tweeted:
“We condemn the atrocious attack against journalist Ahmet Hakan and wish him a speedy recovery. The attacks against the journalists can’t be excused in any way. The violence is unaccepted and it should be rejected unconditionally.
State obligation
“Syrian refugee children’s right to education is not a favor but a state obligation. As organizations of child rights, human rights, labor and trade bodies, we remind the importance of access to education for Syrian refugee children.
Joint work from Non-governmental Organizations
“We request from the related parties to make urgent plans in a collaboration with non-governmental organizations and Syrian refugees. To fulfill these requests is indispensable for an honorable life.
Solution proposals
*All Syrian children and their attendants should be informed about how they can reach education services.
*Precautions (language courses and preparatory classes) should be taken for Syrian students enrolled in state schools due to the language barrier.
*Teachers and school principals should be informed about harsh life conditions, rights, services to be benefited of Syrians and Syrian children should be approached on a legal basis.
*Schools should organize events in order to make students and families from Syria and Turkey live in peace and to overcome biases.
*Teachers should have the goods to overcome the possible discrimination and bullying against the students traumatized from war and migration.
*Guidance a counseling service should be practiced for the students traumatized from war and migration in their own native languages.
* Stationery equipment like notebook, book and etc. that children need should be supplied free of charge.
*Regional differences should be minimized for Syrian children to access education and benefit equally from education services.
Signatories
Kılıçdaroğlu, Yüksekdağ and Demirtaş didn’t attend
Erdoğan didn’t accept the political responsibility
Erdoğan talked about general elections which were held on June 7, 2015:
“None of the political parties could come to power alone after June 7. It has happened for the first time in our history of democracy. We moved in accordance with our constitution even though a government couldn’t be formed.
“Nobody can escape from responsibility by bringing a charge against the presidency or other positions. Our nation is strong enough to overcome the difficulties."
November 1, re-elections…
Click here to read the article in Turkish
On October 1, sergeant Tolga Topçuoğlu and specialist sergeant Sinan Uçan died from Kurdistan Workers’ Party (PKK) attack last morning. After the military operation, a curfew was declared.
Curfews in Diyarbakır
These are the curfews declared by governorship in Diyarbakır in September:
From September 28, 2015 to September 29, 2015 at 5 p.m. (Hani district’s nine quarters)
From September 27, 2015 to September 27, 2015 at night (Bismil district)
Photo Credit: Ahmet Kaplan - Silvan/AA
The detainees were taken to İstanbul Police Department after the medical check-up.
Some of the detainees are: Haluk Ağabeyoğlu, Nusrettin Kaplan, Halit Çiftçi, Ramazan Kırkpınar, Müzeyyen Anıç, Aliye Türk, Emin Ank, Sabiha Bozani, Hicran Urun.
Anti-terror and intelligence branch coordinated the operation
Hürriyet indicated the operation was carried out by anti-terror and intelligence branch.
Suspects were accused of exacting on behalf of Kurdistan Workers’ Party (PKK), attracting supporters politically for PKK and judging people under the name of comrades' courts.
Anadolu Agency remarked three pistols, many bullets, organizational documents and digital properties were captured during the operation. (BK/BD)
* Photo Credit: Ahmet Dumanlı / İstanbul / AA
Illegal modifications are common
MMO said obligatory regulation is the same in EU and Turkey, but functions differently in our country and vehicles should be controlled by independent establishments.
* Illegal and unrecorded modifications in the field of vehicle emission and fuel systems are common.
* Even public buses are fueled up by ıllegal, improper and nonstandard oils. It releases a lot more gas and threatens public health.
*Using of improper and nonequivalent vehicle parts threaten public health and the environment.
Emission measurement is privatized
* Emission measurement was privatized by Ministry of Environment and Urban Planning and has been in private services’ power. Most of the companies perform wrong measurements. It shows us they aim commercial earning not an environment-friendly controlling.
Independent establishments should control vehicles
* Vehicles should be controlled by independent establishments and non-profit organizations but it is the opposite in our country.
* Chamber of Mechanical Engineers should be included during the process of vehicle modifications and measurements.
* Attempts for inactivating Chamber of Mechanical Engineers in the field of traffic and road safety should be stopped. (NV/BD)
Click here to read the article in Turkish
170 members came together for freedom of expression
Canada-based IFEX is known as umbrella organization for international and fundamental organizations like Reporters without Borders (RSF), International Federation of Journalists (IFJ), International Press Institute (IPI), Committee to Protect Journalists (CPJ) and Article 19.
New regulations for new members
Moreover; the applications of 15 rights organizations from Pakistan , Belarus, Cambodia , Sri Lanka , Macedonia, Hungary , the UK, the U.S.A , Ireland, Costa Rica , Lebanon , Colombia, Trinidad & Tobago and Tunisia which request to be new members of IFEX will be evaluated. It is expected from IFEX to change its regulations in order to renew IFEX as a non-profit organization.
IFEX members meet at Clearing House in Toronto led by Canadian Journalist for Free Expression (CJFE). IFEX also mentors its members as a financial advisor.
Bianet and Initiative against Thought Crime
Enrolled in IFEX in 2006, bianet and enrolled in 2007, Initiative against Thought Crime also go to Congress of IFEX. Breaking news from the congress is announced via #IFEX15 on Twitter.
Yüce said he thought the police would shoot him certainly since he loaded the bullet while Demir indicated policemen would treat them differently when they were detained for a second time.
Demir: We were sitting in the garden of municipality
Murat Demir summarized the incident in the garden of Silvan Municipality:
“We were waiting in the garden of Silvan municipality. Peoples’ Democratic Party (HDP) deputy Sibel Yiğitalp and Co-Mayors were there.
“An armored police vehicle came and announced ‘Go inside the town hall!’
“Policemen from the armored vehicle ran across to us shouting ‘We said don’t shoot pictures, didn’t we?’”
"They put a gun against Serhat and detained him first and then me.”
“They fined us 61 Euros for ‘violating the curfew’ and threatened that they would treat us differently if we were detained again.”
Yüce: I thought he would shoot me
DİHA reporter Serhat Yüce quoted:
“An undercover policeman got out the car and loaded his gun. He came to me angrily. He said shooting pictures was forbidden."
“He threatened me while strangling me and putting a gun against my head.”
“I thought he would shoot me, certainly but he amazed me. He just kicked me and then departed.
“We took AA employees as references”
“We took Anadolu Agency (AA) employees as references. AA employees have taken photos of the special operations team, tanks, streets and etc. from the beginning of the curfew and make news about it…"
“We tried to make news like AA."
Situation in Silvan
Photo Credit: Okan Özer / AA
Serhat Yüce summarized the situation in Silvan:
“Last night, Silvan people casseroled the curfew. Silence ruled over the district, now. Policemen announce the curfew goes on.
“People are deprived of food and water. There is no electricity because electric transformers blasted. There is a water shortage in 75% of the district. Citizens are trying to carry water from fountains.”
24 of 51 Peoples’ Democratic Party (HDP) members and executives were released after being interrogated last night, 27 members were sent to the Criminal Court of Peace on duty for arrest.
Taking the testimony of 27 members lasted till this morning.
The names of the detained HDP members: Ayşe Karadağ, Tengazer Yılmaz, Meliha Varışlı, Ramazan Kırkpınar, Senar Ok, Emin Ang, Subutay Açık, Zafer Kırık, İsmail Kurt, Betül Katurman, Hüseyin Güngör, Seyfettin Peker,Emin Acar, Abdurrahim Yazol and Cafer Aydoğmuş.
The names of the released HDP members: Avniye Tanrıkulu, Nurettin Kaplan, Seydi Fırat, Aliye Türk, Gülay Çelik, Mecit Aygün, Hicran Urun, Gülistan Aydın, Refika Kısmet and Haluk Ağabeyoğlu.
HDP members were accused of “exacting on behalf of Kurdistan Workers’ Party (PKK), attracting supporters politically for PKK and judging people under the name of comrades' courts.”
İstanbul Branch of Özgürlükçü Hukukçular Derneği (Association of Libertarian Lawyers) explained the names of detainees:
The court charged one of the perpetrators, Ahmet Şengüler, with deliberately injuring and arrested him.
Journalist Ahmet Hakan was attacked on September 30, in front of his house after he presented his TV show “Tarafsız Bölge"(Neutral Zone) on channel CNN Türk.
Testimonies of the perpetrators
One of the perpetrators, K.E. stated they had been offered 29, 850 Euros for attacking the journalist but they denied their testimonies in the court after they were taken from the police station.
These are the summary of the testimonies of perpetrators K.E., F.E. and U.A. :
K.E.: They offered 29, 850 Euros
A person identifying himself as a bank manager said he had troubles with Ahmet Hakan and if we beat the journalist, he would pay us 29, 850 Euros.
F.E.: National Intelligence Organization and a leader have a finger in
Y.K.G., said to us: “There is a man we should beat: Journalist Ahmet Hakan! He says he is voting for Peoples’ Democratic Party (HDP) and instigates people to vote for HDP. We should bring him down. National Intelligence Organization (MİT), Police Department and a leader have a finger in, they gave the instructions."
U.A.: Statesmen ordered it
Y.K.G., said to us: “Statesmen ordered us to beat Hakan. Ahmet Hakan is a traitor. He tries to split the country and overthrow the government. He plays Turks against Kurds. We will break his arms and legs so he cannot write again. The state won’t disappoint you and will protect you.”
Ahmet Hakan’s lawyer Asli Kazan Gilmore commented: "The suspects withdrew when they were taken from the police station and then sent to the court. They changed their testimonies. The power behind it is being concealed."
Ahmet Hakan tweeted
Journalist Ahmet Hakan has tweeted for the first time after the attack and thanked his supporters:
"Fellows! I have read all your messages. Thank you so much. I am not afraid, I will go on..."
It started in four quarters
Governorship of Mardin had declared a curfew in four quarters: Girmeli, Eskihisar, Tepeüstü and Kayadibi.
Clashes on October 1
Governorship announced five soldiers and a temporary village guard got injured during the clashes between Kurdistan Workers’ Party (PKK) and the military on October 1 in Nusaybin district. A specialist corporal from gendarmerie, Hakan Öcalan, lost his life and a PKK member died.
Two civilians were killed
Demirbaş has hereditary deep thrombosis.
His daughter had started a petition
Abdullah Demirbaş's daughter Berfin Ezgi Demirbaş had started a petition in order for his father and other patients be released.
Demirbas speaking about his father's medical condition reminding of reports given by Forensic Medicine Institute emphasized that unless his father is not discharged, his right to live will be taken away from him.
Demirbaş was discharged because of health problems
Demirbaş was discharged on May 14, 2010 due to his health problems after he was arrested within the scope of Group of Communities in Kurdistan (KCK) operations on December 26, 2010.
However, Demirbaş who had to receive treatment in Sweden, Belgium or Australia was imposed a ban on leaving the country with the allegation of "spoliation of evidence and suspicion of fleeing the country."
This ban was lifted on March 7, 2012.
So, what does 90s mean for Kurdish geography?
Let us start by taking today's Cizre as starting point. The reason why we start especially from today is that news receiving channels are a lot more and diverse; thus those who couldn't see/know the 90s witness today. As the unclear "death toll" that is witnessed by millions is announced, what happened there at times when we didn't see anything? Should the ones belong to past be investigated and punished through an effective trial practice, in other words if there wasn't an order promoting "impunity," then could governments and law-enforcers be this indifferent in violating rights?
Let us hear about Cizre of 2015 from Emine Çağırga who lost her 7 relatives in the attack in Newroz in 1992, and lost her 13-year-old daughter in the curfew last week:
"Cemile came home and said, 'Mom, curfew was declered.' They blockaded us in the following process. They attacked with heavy weapons, tanks and shellings on our houses. We couldn't stay home and left...There were also children on the street, Cemile was among them. Cemile came home running, said 'Mom, a bullet hit aunt's house.' I said 'it is OK.' I turned my behind and they opened fire at that time. When I turned again I saw Cemile was on the ground...We called hospital after she lost her life. Medical staff said they don't have security of life so they won't be able to come. Most of the ambulances were already at police's possession...I preserved my daughter's body in the freezer to not let her smell. My daughter's lifeless body stayed in my arms for 24 hours, and another 24 hours in the freezer. Then somehow ambulance arrived, we pieced woods together since there was no coffin and put Cemile on it. Police didn't let us leave with the body... They said 'We will take it to Şırnak,' and I don't know where they took her. We received the body at the day curfew was lifted and entombed it."
And now let us hear about Cizre of 1992 from Gijal:
"A curfew was declared lasted for 15 days in Cizre after incidents [Newroz]. A tremendous fear gripped women and especially children. People had the concern that what state can do in future if they do such things now. The shops were close, the people were devastated. Occasionally panzers were entering the streets and opening fire at all living beings. We had a neighbour named Sabahat. She was wounded by a bullet hit as she was hanging out laundry on the roof. Let alone going out to the street you couldn't even go up on your house's roof. Everyone seriously suffered from lack of bread and water...After 15 days everything slowly started to normalize, but this time people began to be kidnapped one by one by no-knock raids. I say kidnapping because the raids were not intended to take them into custody or detain but kidnap and murder..."
Then Şırnak governor Mustafa Malay in his interview on T24 news website said regarding 92: "That day massive sufferings were experienced in Cizre and Şırnak. Many people were slaughtered...Many lost their lives, impossible to count. They desolated peoples. I rather find military guilty as to that matter because soldiers were coming and ruining people's workplaces. In addition, they killed everyone regardless of their age...The soldiers too unfortunately killed many."
Retired Brigadier General Mete Sayar who was tried over 6 villagers went missing in Silopi and acquitted headed these soldiers. Sayas, in 1992, was forming these following sentences to journalists which characterizes best the spirit of the era:
"I am trying to draw a nice picture here. If they try to cast a slur on this picture, I will smash it in their heads. As a matter of fact, I already did..."
When we go through past, we will look at the 6-year-long Temizöz Trial that manifests a high-resolution picture of Cizre 20 years ago.
In prosecution dictum given on January 3, 2014, punishment was requested for 9 out of 20 murders that were subjected to the case. As for the others, abatement was demanded due to lapse of time and their acquittal was demanded because of lack of evidence. The trial is expected to be concluded on November 5, 2015.
Two major notions must be spoken of essential to "impunity rule." One of them is lapse of time, and the other is transfer of the case for security reasons. The request of not subjecting the claim of "forming organization to commit crime" to trial was mentioned in the prosecution dictum. So even though the existence of the organization is affirmed -the prosecution didn't- defendands won't be able to be tried with regard to lapse of time over forming illegal organization and committing organized crime. In other words even it is established that they committed murder, they will be judged as individuals rather than in an organized way which obviously contradicts Nurnberg principles and international law. Since the trial is ongoing and started in 2009, it hasn't fallen in the blackhole called lapse of time.
These cases for security reasons have their shares from practice of transfer of cases. Transferring of Mete Sayar, Musa Çitil and Nezer Tekçi without any solid justification and acquittal following it is such as to corroborate this argument. Ruling on this in the last instance doesn't mean anything than taking the Temizöz Trial off the agenda.
Most of the people living there at those times know commanders' names. Including the Temizöz, under the defense of the judged soldiers which is "I struggled to keep state alive" lies massacres, forced kidnappings, arbitrary executions and tortures. Fame of a soldier served as captain and squadron leader was in consequence of "Murders that are a state police" as stated by Lieutenant General Atilla Kıyat.
Let us hear one of these murders from one of the fathers, Ramazan Uykur, of the deceased İsmet Uykur:
Temizöz Trial is one of the cases that hasn't been concluded with acquittal yet regarding forced kidnappings and arbitrary executions. Standing by kinsmen of missing and deceased people during the seek of justice is the human duty of everyone who didn't see/know those times. It is a small opportunity for a big start for impunity to cease to be a norm and arbitrary murders end...So, in order to not ask the question "is it being returned to 90s" and receive a different answer and be able to reach today from past, this trial stands on a faultline. It is very important for justice to be administered to establish sense of justice, not let people get away with their crimes and stop impunity from being the order itself. (LP/TK)
Click here to read the article in Turkish
In Bismil district of Diyarbakır province in southeastern Turkey, the police launched an operation after the curfew had been declared. Four unidentified persons were killed.
According to the news of Dicle News Agency (DİHA), the dead bodies were taken to Bismil State Hospital morgue.
The curfew was declared by the district governorship yesterday at noon in quarters Ulutürk (Rojava), Dumlupınar (Avaşin), Fırat and Tekel of Bismil. Many armored police and military vehicles blockaded the quarters.
According to the news of Yüksekova News, the attacks intensified in Avaşin and Rojava. State hospital officials didn’t give information about the case while DİHA stated four killed people were civilians.
The tension continues in the district and gunshots and booms are heard in the quarters.
Click here to read the article in Turkish
According to the reports by various newspapers, two suspects are being looked for.
"Aiding intentional murder, destroying evidence"
Prosecutor Kökçü took this decision as to these figures based on crimes of "helping kill the person intentionally in an organized way, forgery and cover-up of official documents." (AS/TK)
Click here to read the article in Turkish
It was stated that Altınok, Su and Sel misconducted and caused Birlik to be tortured.
Impunity policy
However, it is interesting that responsible persons for the increasing death of civilians are unpunished. Administrative chiefs don’t do their jobs meticulously, they stir up the violence on the contrary. It makes the death of civilians increase.
Impunity policy against responsible law enforcement officers violates the International Law of Human Rights and International Humanitarian Law. “
Hate and discrimination crime
“Not only the memory of Hacı Osman Birlik was disrespected but also a hate and discrimination crime against humanity was committed.
Torturing a dead body and publishing the photos of it not only means targeting Birlik’s family but also violently attacking the co-existence while deepening the fraction between peoples and identities."
The allegation shows camera records, city surveillance camera records and testimonies of the witnesses as evidence.
What happened?
In the operation carried out by police on the night of October 2, HDP Şırnak Deputy Leyla Birlik’s brother-in-law 24-year-old Hacı Lokman Birlik lost his life. The dead body of Birlik was dragged by an armored police vehicle and the incident’s photos were published on the social media.
HDP Co-Chair Selahattin Demirtaş said on his Twitter account, “Look closely at this photo. It was taken in Şırnak the other day. No one should forget it because we won’t.” (AS/BD)
Click here to read the article in Turkish
Superior court evaluating the objection noted that the ruling regarding the release of six suspects is sound.
Chief Prosecutor conducting the enquiry Mehmet Şenay Baygın had objected to the release of six suspects who were send to the court for arrestment on Sunday.
Six suspects out of seven issued to İstanbul Palace of Justice on Sunday were discharged of lack of evidence, and suspect Ahmet Şengüler was arrested for "willful injury." (EKN/TK)
Oppression of repressive regimes, struggle against the fear and strengthening the solidarity were emphasized.
Game: We can make good news, more
Executive Director of IFEX, Annie Game, explained during the opening speech that freedom of expression and journalism weren’t safe while caricaturist Zunar in Malaysia was under the threat of being sentenced to 40 years in prison, investigative journalist İsmailova in Azerbaijan was in prison and journalists in many countries were doing their jobs under harsh conditions.
“If we approach more creatively and strengthen the solidarity we can make good news, more. Look, Uruguay will make a law for media democratization,” Game said.
Dojcsa: They spread fear into society
In congress where 170 members from fund organizations, IFEX, workshop directors participated in, side activities like ‘running campaign effectively’, ‘digitals security practices’ and ‘protecting conscientious objection prisoners’ were held.
Mijatovic from OSCE: violence isn’t a necessity of the journalism
Battle of a female journalist in Colombia
Jineth Bedoya Lima from Colombia told on panel ‘collaboration and communication’ how she lived through the hard times with solidarity of her colleagues after being kidnapped and raped by paramilitaries.
Trionfi: Only active defenders should apply law projects
Braimah: we established a dialogue with the government
Media Foundation for West Africa (MFWA) representative Süleymana Braimah told how the bad relationships with Government of Ghana were mended:
In the statement by Diyabarkır Bar President Tahir Elçi said the court ruled that the defendant must be present with them for the cross-examining yet he was absent in the trial.
"The court has violated its own ruling"
"The court has violated its own procedure and ruling," said Elçin.
Aydın's attorney: We are now out of expectations
Attorney Elçi said that murdered Bahtiyar Aydın's family's lawyer Necdet Solmazgül took the floor and stated that the family is in tremendous pain.
Elçi expressed that considering its extending period, it seems as there is a latent agreement between legal and administrative authorities to not have him on bar.
Elçi added that they want an investigation to be undertaken to uncover whether there are other figures behind these incidents.
Other defendant died without even testifying
Recusation demand will be tried by İzmir 2nd Heavy Penal Court. Chief Judge Nurettin Küdür announced that the next trial will be held on December 24.
Aslan stated 10% of Turkey’s population was Arabic and hate speech should be omitted from those books.
“Anladıysam Arap olayım! (Translation: I’ll be an Arab if I understand!) (A Turkish idiom that can be called in English as ‘It’s all Greek to me!)
“Her şey arapsaçına döndü! (Translation: Everything is topsy-turvy like an Arab’s hair!) (A Turkish idiom that phrases everything is very complicated and tangled)
Arabic kids
* Do you realize how these discriminating and humiliating expressions in textbooks hurt the heart and mind of Arabic kids in schools?
* Dictionary of Turkish Language Association (TDK) verbalizes Arabs as “Negros” and “Egyptian peasants”, do you know it?
* Do you know TDK has discriminating proverbs and idioms about Arabic people?
* Will you make a study for omitting these expressions full of mistakes and nonsense from TDK’s dictionary?
Old Turkish films
* Will you make something about old Turkish movies where people called their dogs ‘Arab’?
Women from HDP told the torture they were exposed to.
In a press statement made by Kongra Jınên Azad/Free Woman Congress (KJA), police officers who tortured women under detention and doctors who didn’t evidence the torture and they would make an allegation against them.
Lawyer Narin Yılmaz emphasized the case was hidden from her due to confidentiality order and they learned the detention reason from the media.
Examination at 3 a.m.
Gülistan Aydın from HDP İstanbul 3rd region Election Coordination:
“We were put in cells at 6.30 p.m. They told us we were going to be examined at the hospital and put us in handcuffs. We sat in an armored police vehicle. It was 3 a.m.
“There was Özgür Gündem daily editor Hicran Urun. Police called her ‘Damn terrorist!’ by pulling her hair and beating. I shouted ‘Hey, what are you doing?’ This time they called me dishonorable terrorist and punched me.”
Polis: You aren’t worth wearing headscarf
“They beat all of us in police vehicle through the road. 65-year-old women were with us. Police officers tried to tear up their hand scarfs saying ‘You aren’t worth wearing headscarf!’
To a breastfeeding woman: “She even has a bastard”
“When a friend said she was breastfeeding, they shouted ‘Look, she even has a bastard! You are breeding terrorist!’ We came to the hospital, but the doctor had fun with us instead of listening to us.
“Where did you dye your hair?”
“After the examination, they shouted ‘Where did you dye your hair?’ to 63-year-old district head of HDP in the vehicle and tore her hair out.
"They made us recite National Anthem"
“Police officers made us recite National Anthem: “I will kill you if you don’t say you are a Turk!”
“We are going to kill you if you say something”
Bağcılar district head of HDP, Sebiha Bozan, told she said to police officers she had hypertension and asthma so the dosage of torturing increased.
When Avniye Tanrıkulu said to the police officer she had epilepsy, police officers:
For instance it is a reason of the anger that the assembly, which they entered with 80 representatives by crushing the election threshold that is a heritage of September 12 constitution, was nullified by "snap election" decision...
Or instead of conducting campaign works, engaging in a tag with law enforcers in the entrance of the cities under siege, going from hospital to hospital with the civilians who are victims of conflict and of course the most dramatic reality of this process, condolence visits...
One of the instances which the "anger" in question that is mentioned at the beginning of this depressing article found its tongue was reflected in the cameras the other day. "Reflected in the cameras" is just figure of speech, a cliche of keyboard habit.
The anger was a bit related to the fact that what cameras shoot are not reflected in the screens. Selahattin Demirtaş called out in Silvan where has become one of the stands of the long-lasting murderous curfews. He was angry about another young man be massacred brutally on his leave from the condolence visit of 17-year-old Vedat Akcanım who lost his life in the attacks launched during the 4-day-long curfew. He was angry with the Justice and Development Party (AKP) which he regards as responsible of the war, and according to him the ruling party didn't have any political correspondence in the region.
As Demirtaş not belaboring finishes his talk voiced another source of his anger. He said "The AKP remains standing by means of special execution teams" and added that "Turkey's west also will not be able to hear most of my speech here because shootings of 15 of the 20 cameras here will not be able to televise."
Those who wonder the media embargo inflicted upon the HDP may take a look at Şirin Payzın from CNN Türk. Those who are not contented with that may glance at what has overcome Ahmet Hakan who tried to flout this meaningless ban in his own ways.
It isn't pleasant, is it? Another unpleasant event took place in lonely and beautiful Turkey's political climate in which this bleakness has been largely discussed. Bianet readers should know; this incident happened to the cameras that would televize the shootings Demirtas mentioned.
Police maybe didn't pull the trigger because of shrieking of the other witness of the incident, HDP Deputy of Diyarbakır Sibel Yiğitalp. The journalists were takin into custody and released 5 hours later after they were taken to Silvan Police Department.
The story, which is a Kurdish city cliche until this point, got weirder. The young journalists coming face to face with death were punished let alone being the victims of it. The cover up was "violation of curfew." Two journalists now have to pay 208 liras each. If you are not afraid of wandering on the edge of death and have 208 liras for each day for the arbitrary curfews, then there is no obstacle before doing journalism.
This unpleasanat incident and afterwards happened to the journalists whom I believe receive humble salaries because of the limited sources of the organizations they work for has reminded me the story of cagy thief.
The young man catches out the thief and calls out to his father, "Dad, I got the thief." His father says "Bring him here son" but as the thief gets stubborn, the young man calls out again and says "he is not coming." "Let him go then," says his father and his son responds "I released him but he doesn't let me go."
In the incidents like this, which would cost the posts of whoever is responsible in other countries, the victims are made to pay the price.
Demirtaş early on today came together with İstanbul Fresh Fruits Vegetables Truck Garden Brokers and Merchants Association (İSMEYDER) President Nevzat Dayan and All Truck Garden Vegetable and Fruit Brokers (TÜMESKOM) President Burhan Er, and heard problems of marketplace tradesmen.
"At least the clashes must stop"
Responding to the question by journalists "There were some news on press claiming that a truce will be declared on September 11. Do you have any information on whether these are true?" Demirtaş said,
"The biggest problem, our common issue is issue of peace. There cannot be commerce where there is no peace.
"We have used every means available of our party to end clashes. Hopefully we will achieve some results. We don't have solid information or data but the stage to where we took our studies requires us to be optimistic. No one should give up on peace.
"We cannot act like nothing happened while this many people lose their lives."
"It will be good for everyone if returned to the process"
In response to the question "The president had statements as to putting the process on the shelf. Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoğlu had some statements claiming HDP has pursued terror policy. How do you interpret these?" Demirtaş said:
"Isn't the process in the cold storage? They express all these themselves. Any moment that search for Resolution is absent risks of more deaths....Thus, volition for resolution must revive.
We haven't heard a single statement about why the process was terminated, therefore if it is returned to the process and dialogue channels are re-opened, Turkey and everyone in the country will benefit."
Celal Başlangıç wrote
Journalist Celal Başlangıç in his column at T24 wrote that PKK will declare its decision on non-conflict:
"PKK is at the stage of declaring to enter a unilateral 'period of non-conflict' and switch to defense only mode. This decision, as far as I've been informed, will be announced on October 11, 2015 and will be in effect until the end of elections, November 1."
HDP İzmir Deputy Ertuğrul Kürkçü said "After Hozat's statement, PKK to announce a 'unilateral state of non-conflict' fits my logic and expectations too. Kürkçü in his statement to Reuters said, "In many ways PKK taking such decision will be positive." (AS/TK)
Click here to read the article in Turkish
The association stated, "perpetual non-conflict must be established in no time and transited to dialogue and negotiation procedure."
According to data HRA Documentation Unit could reach, the murdered 113 people have lost their lives in explosions, by police and soldier bullets, and in unidentified attacks.
"As far as determined, five people killed by armed militants of PKK, and almost all of the others killed by state security forces' attacks."
European Council and UN
HRA noting that Geneva Convention has been violated and war crime has been committed, has demanded effective probe and prosecution for initially the governors who declared curfew and then the interior minister that gave instructions to the governors on this matter.
Moreover, juridical and administrative inquiry must be carried out as to those who died as they couldn't be taken to hospital due to obstruction.
Republican People’s Party (CHP) and Nationalist Movement Party (MHP) weren’t much successful according to the locals.
Some of them told us “Trabzon doesn’t let HDP (Peoples’ Democratic Party) be elected,” we couldn’t see HDP flags corroboratively.
Haluk Pekşen from CHP:
“AKP made it voters think MHP couldn’t help forming a coalition. However, only a man rules Turkey, already. In this election, the decision to abolish it will be made.”
Hüseyin Taka from HDP:
Rize
Voters in Rize think AKP embellishes the city; they don’t follow the news but give importance to the practices of AKP. So, they suppose AKP’s votes will increase.
Problems of Rize people are; unemployment, being a small city and bare opportunities for the youth.
Deputy candidates and voters complain of ‘tea problems’ (tea in Turkey is grown mostly in Rize Province) ; floor prices, imposed quota for the tea selling, having to market tea for lower price to private sector…
Most of Rize people suffer from financial difficulties and joblessness. They say, on the other hand:
CHP Women's Branch Head of Rize, Fazilet Türüt:
* Photo Credit: Beyza Kural / bianet
* The election tour was coordinated by P24.
According to conveyance of eyewitnesses, two explosions happened at Railroad Terminal Intersection as corteges were gathering at aroun 10:00 a.m. in Ankara. It was told that the explosion occurred near the Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) cortege.
Union of Bars of Turkey President Metin Feyzioğlu has confirmed that one person died according to initial findings. Afterwards Dogan News Agence (DHA) said death toll is over 20.
Meanwhile, bomb squad is on its way to dispose of a suspicious package found in the scene of incident.
Initial statements
It is announced that Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoğlu was informed in by Health Minister and Interior Minister at 11:20 a.m. and Yalçın Akdoğan will get together with Health Minister, Interior Minister, National Intelligence Organization (MİT) Undersecretary at Prime Ministry residence at 12:00 a.m. and then carry on with his program in Kayseri.
Turkish Medical Association President Beyazıt İlhan said they are in effort to determine number of casualties and meet the need for blood. He added that he talked with the Health Minister as to the need for ambulance.
HDP Co-Chair Selahattin Demirtaş said in his initial statement, "We have faced with a huge massacre. A brutal, barbarous attack took place that is very similar and a follow-up of the ones happened in Diyarbakır and Suruç, it is a very heavy loss."
Demirtaş interpreting the attack as massacre criticized the police firing gas with trenchant words. "They are almost like trying to increase casualties. Mobile units arrive before ambulances and delaying medical intervention. This interim prime minister will now appear and insult us looking right into our eyes by saying we should keep our common sense. What kind of a state you have turned into, your police use gas on people as they carry wounded.
Republican People's Party (CHP) Chair Kemal Kılıçdaroğlu made his initial statement in Kadıköy where he was present for events. Kılıçdaroğlu sayin "Since when asking to live together has become a crime?" noted that they have cancelled all their events countrywide and to head for Ankara:
Following the explosion news HDP provincial building is evacuated and search was made in the building. In the provincial building in which Demirtaş was expected to issue a press statement, journalists and staff were cleared out and a search was made by the party members. Demirtaş has come to the building after the search was completed.
Police used gas
Prime Ministry: 95 people killed, 246 wounded
Prime Minstry Coordination Center said according to the initial findings, the bombing has left 95 people dead, 246 wounded including 48 in intensive care..
Names of 52 of the deceased whose identity procedures and/or autopsy procedures completed have been announced.
Labor, peace, democracy rally would be held
A large number of unions and trade bodies including DİSK, Confederation of Public Laborer's Unions (KESK), Union of Chambers of Turkish Engineers and Architects (TMMOB), and Turkish Medical Association (TTB) would hold a rally named "Labor, peace, democracy."
Alongside DİSK, KESK, TMMOB, and TTB, Labourer Movement Party (EHP), Green and Left Future Party (SYKP), Labor Party (EMEP), Alewite Bektashi Federation, Pir Sultan Abdal Culture Association, Hacı Bektaş Culture Foundation, Turkish Human Rights Foundation, Community Centers, and June Movement would join the rally as well. (ÇT/HK/AS/TK)
Click here to read the article in Turkish
Peoples’ Democratic Party (HDP) Co-Chair Selahattin Demirtaş and other protesters were searched.
The tension between the police and citizens increased and it was stated police used tear gas.
According to the conveyance of eyewitnesses, two explosions happened at Railroad Terminal Intersection as corteges were gathering at around 10:00 a.m. in Ankara. It was told that the explosion occurred near the HDP cortege.
Prime Ministry stated 95 people lost their lives in ‘Labor, Democracy and Peace Meeting’ in Ankara and 246 people are still being treated; 48 of them are in intensive care unit.
“This bombing attack is not against a group or a political community, it is against all over the country. It is against all the people in our country.
"It is strongly indicated that the bombing attack was carried out by two suicide bombers.
* Photo Credit: Ahmet Saymadi / Twitter
“Two suicide bombers killed 95 people. People were killed due to security gap. This country doesn’t deserve it.
“Minister of the Interior claimed there was no security gap. I told Davutoğlu that minister should resign if he doesn’t resign he should be unseated along with Minister of Justice.
“Davutoğlu said he appointed investigators related to the subject and made them prepare a report.
“If the two ministers have a respect for the deceased people and their families, they will resign without waiting for any report.
“I also mentioned Davutoglu he followed a wrong foreign policy and so our country was submerged in terror.
“Turkey should be saved from the mud of Middle East she was stuck in the middle. Why do the country dwellers have to live in hornets’ nest?
Peoples’ Democratic Party (HDP) Co-Chair Selahattin Demirtaş expressed about the bombing in Ankara:
“This bombing was not against the unity and territorial integrity of the state but it was against the people carried out by the state itself.
“Perpetrators will be put on trial, they can’t escape from prison without suffering the consequences.
Claiming the death toll was 128, Demirtaş stated:
“It hurts so badly. Unfortunately, 128 comrades lost their lives. We won’t be motivated by revenge and hatred but we will pat hem back.
“The first step will be taken on November 1 (general elections). They will be finished off. It is good to overthrow dictators in November.
Click here to read the article in Turkish
Identification of 92 of the deceased has been completed, five of them are in Forensic Medicine Institute for DNA test.
91 of the identified ones were delivered to their families by Prime Ministry Disaster and Emergency Management Authority (AFAD) for transfer and burial procedures. Works on identification of two male corpses determined to be suicide bombers are on-going. (EKN/TK)
Click here to read the article in Turkish
In accordance with strike decision upon the bombing at Labor, Peace, Democracy Rally in Ankara, Turkey-wide strike is being worked.
The Confederation of Progressive Trade Unions(DİSK), the Confederation of Public Employees' Trade Unions of Turkey (KESK), Union of Chambers of Turkish Engineers and Architects (TMMOB), Turkish Medical Association (TTB), announced to strike for October 12-13 upon the explosion.
İCommemoration and strike rally were held in İstanbul Boğaziçi University for Ankara upon call by Education and Science Workers' Union (Eğitim Sen)
People started to gather in İzmir Dokuz Eylül University upon call by Eğitim Sen.
Edirne Trakya University students will march at 12:30 p.m.
Students protest in İstanbul University.
Eğitim-Sen İstanbul Branc No:6.
Galatasaray University protests as well.
Ege University students protested the attack by marching.
İstanbul Kadıköy High School students too protested the attack.
Antalya Akdeniz University students have organized march.
Ankara Middle East Technical University (ODTÜ) students have also organized march.
Students boycott in Davutpaşa campus of İstanbul Yıldız Teknik University.
Adana Çukurova University students boycott.
Unions and trade bodies are on strike
Erzurum KESK members have marched.
TMMOB members marched in Samsun.
Health Workers' Union (SES) members have marched in front of İstanbul Çapa Hospital for strike.
Teachers march in Bakırköy.
ABB Kartal workers.
Gebze Çayırova boru işçileri. Gebze Çayırove pipe workers.
Konvekta workers.
Mert Akışkan workers.
Penta salt workers.
Commemoration for Ali Kitapçı in front of Ankara Terminal.
* We suspend life
** Photos: Twitter
Delegates renewed the Council of IFEX in the congress which is symbolizing international collaboration of freedom of expression for 23 years where 170 representatives have attended from 70 different countries.
While the number of IFEX members who had been working for collaboration and solidarity between the members was increased from 8 to 13, bianet Media Monitoring Reporter, Erol Önderoğlu, has been elected as a member of IFEX Council.
Initiative against Thought Crime representative Berna Akkızal who introduced Museum of Crimes of Thought supported the council membership of bianet.
New regulation, new members
IFEX which had functioned under the umbrella of Canadian Journalist for Free Expression (CJFE) gained status as a “non-profit organization,” and so CJFE and IFEX were separated.
Moreover; the applications of 15 rights organizations from Pakistan , Belarus, Cambodia , Sri Lanka , Macedonia, Hungary , the UK, the U.S.A , Ireland, Costa Rica , Lebanon , Colombia, Trinidad & Tobago and Tunisia which requested to be the new members of IFEX were accepted.
In Adana where the bomb attack which claimed 97 lives was protested, 3-year-old Tevriz Dora was killed by a bullet hitting his head.
According to CNN Türk, police attacked on the protests with pressurized water and pepper gas in Mithatpaşa Neighborhood of Central Seyhan district.
Meanwhile, a bullet hit in Tevriz Dora's head sitting on the laps of Kamile Dora sitting in front of their house, as Anadolu Agency (AA) reports.
The heavily wounded child could not be saved despite all the efforts in Çukurova Dr. Aşkım Tüfekçi State Hospital where he was taken for treatment.
No official declaration was made as to who fired the gun by 1:30 p.m. (EKN/TK)
Click here to read the article regarding Adana incident in Turkish
Click here to read the article regarding Diyarbakır incident in Turkish
Davutoğlu speaking on NTV live broadcast in brief said these:
"Investigation is completed. Two police officers were relieved of duty for shooting this video, displaying this behavior, and casting shadow on the legitimacy of terror operations.
Davutoğlu speaking on NTV live broadcast in brief said these:
"Investigation is completed. Two police officers were relieved of duty for shooting this video, displaying this behavior, and casting shadow on the legitimacy of terror operations.
“It was a part of overshadowing the general elections (November 1) in Turkey. Investigations are going on. We will discuss the additional measures to be taken in a different situation.
“Surely it was the doing of suicide bombers”
“Surely it was the doing of suicide bombers. We determined how two suicide bombers went to the Sıhhıye Square (venue) and how they had carried the bombs. We approximated a name. That name indicates an illegal organization.
“There are no unidentified murders like in the 1990s… Critical information has been acquired for 48 hours, but it is not true to give a clue.
“We have some common information; DAESH (ISIS) has been forming teams named ‘Immortals’ and also Kurdistan Workers’ Party (PKK) has been making preparations.
Turkey is a jeopardous area of activity
“Turkey has been running election campaigns; we hold election rallies across the country. Turkey is a jeopardous area of these kinds of activities.
“Holding public demonstration as massive crowds in Ankara, İstanbul or other metropolitan cities should be prevented.
Police operations
“Between July 20 and July 23, we launched police operations against DAESH [Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS)], Revolutionary People's Liberation Party–Front (DHKP/C) and PKK. 768 suspects were detained.
“There is a list of suicide bombers; we follow them but when we are close catching them, the efforts are protested.” (AS/BD)
Click here to read the article in Turkish
Demirtaş visited condolence tent pitched for Kübra Meltem, who lost her life in Ankara massacre, in Fikirtepe neighbourhood of Kadıköy district in İstanbul.
Demiraş said to journalists in his statement following his visit:
"How can we hold a meeting within such painful atmosphere? We will provide our own security, we don't have any serious concerns about that. Life of a single person is much more important than our election victory and meetings.
We aimed to act with solidarity with DİHA of which website has been blocked 24 times and listen to the story of the journalists in Diyarbakır. The bureau was at the same building with Azadiya Welat daily, Kurdi-Der and Aram Publishing House.
DİHA Editor in Kurdish language, Ferzande Taşan, Editor in Turkish language and Diyarbakır News Director Ömer Çelik welcomed us.
Çelik had worked in İstanbul bureau of DİHA for years and was in prison between 2011 and 2013 for the case of Group of Communities in Kurdistan (KCK).
Taşan also was a former arrested free media member.
The police raided DİHA, Azadiya Welat, Aram, Kurdi-Der on September 28 and detained 32 employees without a search warrant.
Journalists were released after being searched for gunshot residue.
"It is like a tradition for Free Media. They put a gun against the head of our friend, point guns without reason. We are alive, that is the difference from the 1990s...
Who is Ömer Çelik?
Ömer Çelik started journalism at Anadolu Agency in 2007. He has been working at DİHA since 2007. He was arrested in December 2011 while he was a reporter at İstanbul bureau of DİHA but released in June 2013. Çelik works as News Director of DİHA Diyarbakır bureau.
Undercover policemen attacked ferry-goers in Kadıköy who wanted to protest Ankara bombing that left 97 people dead and to make a press statement in Beyazıt district of İstanbul.
A small group trying to board Eminönü ferry was blockaded by the police in the morning.
Police officers in plain clothes pushed people at the ferry quay, battered some of them and then detained.
Riot policemen prevented from being viewed during the detentions.
Mücella Yapıcı from İstanbul Chamber of Architects reacted against the police: “What are you doing?!!!”
According to latest statement, 97 people have lost their lives in the attack carried out by two suicide bombers at Labor, Peace, Democracy rally in Ankara on October 10.
We share the stories that we could find of the ones to call for peace in Ankara.
Abdülkadir Uyan
26-year-old Abdulkadir Uyan from Bingöl graduated from İstanbul University, Electrical Electronic Engineering in 2013. They opened an engineering office with his brother in Bingöl. He applied for post graduate to İstanbul University, Electrical Electronic Engineering a day before the explosion.
He will be buried in Mutluca village of Solhan district.
Metin Kürklü
53-year-old Metin Kürklü was a retired worker and chair of Labor Party (EMEP) Merzifon District. He had gone to Ankara with his friends to join the rally which took place on his birthday.
His body was buried in Merzifon district of Amasya province on October 11.
Gökhan Akman
His body was buried in Kızılyaka neighbourhood of Çameli district in Denizli province on October 11.
Orhan Işıktaş
24-year-old Orhan Işıktaş was a third-grade at Selçuk University, Logistics Department.
His body was buried in Zübeyir village of Tarsus district in Mersin on October 11.
Işıktaş's mother, Müzeyyen Işıktaş, at funeral said "Orhan went to Ankara for peace. They killed the ones who went for peace. I am sorry for everyone's loss, except for Erdoğan.
Gülhan Karlı Elmascan / Yılmaz Elmascan
While Elmascan's body will be buried in Suruç district of Urfa province, his wife Gülhan Karlı Elmascan will be buried in Ereğli district of Konya province. .
Nevzat Sayan
Selfie of BTS members going to the rally from Adana Yılmaz Elmascan, Nevzat Sayan, Bilgen Parlak and Rıdvan Akgül was released.
Bilgen Parlak
45-year-old BTS member Bilgen Parlak was buried in his hometown, Kahta.
Hacı Kıvrak
Adana BTS member Hacı Kıvrak had been working at TCDD for 25 years. Body of 45-year-old Kıvrak, the father of two, was buried in Üzümlük village of Yozgat's Aydınlık district on October 11.
Rıdvan Akgül
Rıdvan Akgül was a worker at TCDD Adana Directorate and BTS member. His body was buried in Siirt province on October 11.
Fevzi Sert
TCDD worker 45-year-old Fevzi was married and the father of three. His body was buried in Kozan district of Adana province.
Hacı Mehmet Şah
Gökmen Dalmaç
Elif Kanlıoğlu
20-year-old Elif Kanlıoğlu was among those who went to the rally from Aydın. She was second-grade at Mersin University, Foreign Language College.
Hakan Dursun Akalın
Hakan Dursun Akalın performing his teaching duty in Amasya had posted the following message on social media before he went to the rally:
Ercan Adsız
42-year-old Ercan Adsız was president EMEP Party Çanakkale Provincial Directorate.
His body was buried in Çorlu district of Tekirdağ province on October 11.
Ayşe Deniz
Berna Koç
İBerna Koç from İzmir was working as a garbage collector and prepared for university admission exams. Koç had gotten into Celal Bayar University, Map and Cadastre department. She had also partaken at the Gay-Lesbian Worker Meeting organized by KaosGL with the participation of LGBT workers and public officers.
Berna Koç will be sent off on an eternal journey with mass ceremony at 11:00 a.m. in front of İzmir Konak Municipality, and in front of Community Center at 1:00 p.m.
Fatma Esen
Fatma Esen from Eruh, 45, is the mother of two and HDP member. Her funeral will be held by İstanbul Fatih Women Bazaar Association of Eruh residents on October 12.
Gülbahar Aydeniz
Gülbahar Aydeniz was among 11 CHP youth branch members who lost their lives in Ankara rally. Aydeniz was Malatya Youth Branch member.
Eren Akın
19-year-old Eren Akın was a member of CHP Malaty Youth Branch. His body was buried in Malatya district on October 11.
His selfie with CHP Chair Kemal Kılıçdaroğlu was released on social media.
Canberk Bakış
Adnan Menderes University and Labor Youth member Canberk Bakış lost his life in Ankara.
Bakış who was a student at Nazilli Faculty of Economics and Administrative Sciences, was buried in Malatya on October 11.
Message of condolence was released on university's official website with the sign of rector Prof. Dr. Cavit Bircan.
Tayfun Benol
Tayfun Benol, born in 1961, graduated from İstanbul University, International Relations department in 1988. He was in socialist struggle as of high-school years. He was the managing editor of Politika Newspaper.
He had penned one of "100leşme"* articles prepared due to 1000th Commemorate of Armenian Genocide and shared Leman's story.
His friend Gülengül Altıntaş wrote about him in her article titled "Tayfun Benol, a Beatiful Person."
Nizamettin Bağcı
56-year-old married and the father of five, Nizamettin Bağcı, was a construction worker. His body was buried in Saruhanlı district of Manisa province on October 11. His brother, Nevzat Bağcı, said "Those are peace martyrs. They went for peace".
Kasım Otur
48-year-old Kasım Otur was former chair of BTS Malatya Branch.
Married and the father of one Otur's body was buried in Malatya on October 11.
Başak Sidar Çevik
Başak Sidar Çevik was a final year student at Atılım University, Faculty of Civil Engineering. Her mother, father and aunt had come to the rally from Urfa province. Her aunt Nilgün Çevik lost her life along with Çevik.
Resul Yanar
Construction worker Resul Yanar, from Saruhanlu district of Manisa province, was married and the father of four. His body was buried in Manisa on October 11.
Mehmet Ali Kılıç
Mehmet Ali Kılıç from Malatya was one of CHP Malatya Youth Branch administrators.
Tekin Arslan
Construction Workers' Union Boar member Tekin Aslan, who was one of the charter members of the union, had gone to the rally from İstanbul. His funeral will be held at Kartal Djemevi on October.
Sezen Vurmaz
52-year-old Sezen Vurmaz was in Ankara with her 15-year-old daughter to visit her sibling. She lost her life due to bombing at where she was accidentally passing by, her daughter was heavily wounded.
Sezen Vurmaz was the mother of Yeşilyurtspor player Onur Vurmaz.
Dilaver Karharman
Umut Tan / Onur Tan
Kocaeli Metropolitan Municipality Congressman from CHP Dilek Tan's aunt's daughter Sarıgül Tüylü also lost her life along with Onur and Umut Tan in Ankara, who are cousins of Dilek Tan.
Sarıgül Tüylü
35-year-old Sarıgül Tüylü was the mother of 10 and 5 year old children.
She was sent off on an eternal journay on the shoulders of women from Nurtepe Djemevi in Kağıthane on October 12.
Dilan Sarıkaya
22-year-old Dilara Sarıkaya was a student at Çukurova University, Department of Archaelogy and EMEP member. Her body was met with hundreds of thousands of people in Adana.
Dilan Sarıkaya's father İzzet Sarıkaya said "I want to bid farewell to my comrade with the first slogan I taught her. Death to fascism, freedom to people. Say hello to our comrade, my dear comrade."
Her body was buried in Adana on October 12.
Ali Kitapçı
Railroad worker Ali Kitapçı will be buried in Ankara Karşıyaka cemetery after the commemoration in front of Ankara Station on October 12.
İsmail Kızılçay
İsmail Kızılçay, 49, the father of two was member of Construction Workers' Union.
He was wounded at the protest held in Ankar on June 5 after Ethem Sarısülük shooting. His body was buried in Aşağıkayı neighbourhood of Tosya District in Kastamonu.
Muhammet Demir
19-year-old Muhammet Demir from Hakkari province was a university student in chemistry in İstanbul.
Korkmaz Tetik
Veysel Deniz Atılgan / İbrahim Atılgan
Veysel Atılgan was 9 years old. He was at the rally with his father, 55-year-old İbrahim Atılgan, who was appointed to Ankara five years ago while he was working at TCDD Diyarbakır Directorate.
İbrahim Atılgan was a BTS member. His son, Veysel Atılgan, was studying at Kürşad Bey Primary School. In a video shot a short time ago, he says he wants to be a lawyer and want bicycle, tablet and computer from his parent.
Their bodies were buried in Batman on October 11.
Veysel Atılgan's teacher, Sabahat Yıldırım, wrote these after his student's death:
"My dear student Muhammed Veysel Atılgan, you became a target to murders hand in hand with your father for asking for peace with the big heart in your tiny body. You were subjected to fascist attack in the center of Ankara. The memory of you playing tag with your friends is not vanishing. Now tell me, how can I tell about my beatiful eyed and hearted child.
"How will I instruct this course without commemorating you? It would be missing if I tell about you without using the word 'peace', but if I say the word, wouldn't your friends ask 'Is peace equal to death, my teacher?' Which egos are satisfied of bloodthirsty murderers? I promise you my beatiful eyed and hearted child, the seat by window where you always liked sitting will always be yours. Dove of peace is you for me now..."
Emine Ercan
Emine Ercan was 55 years old and EMEP member. Her body was sent off in Çorum Hacı Bektaş Djemevi on the shoulders of women on October 12.
Kübra Meltem Mollaoğlu
Kübra Meltem Mollaoğlu was a candidate for deputy from HDP İstanbul 1st Area 16th Rank. She was married and the mother of two.
Many people joined the funeral that took place at Karacaahmet Cemetery in Üsküdar on October 11.
Meryem Bulut
Bulut's body was buried in Batman next to her grandchild.
Seyhan Yaylagül
Seyhan Yaylagül was 46 years old, married and the mother of two. She had gone to Elbistan district of Maraş province from Ankara with her teacher husband.
A funeral was held in djemevi in Elbistan for Yaylagül along with Ebru Mavi who died on her way to Elbistan. Yaylagül was buried in Malatya.
Ebru Mavi
20-year-old Ebru Mavi was a second-grade at Ankara University, Department of Chemistry. She had gone to visit her uncle, HDP District Co-Chair İsmail İşli who came from Alanya for the rally.
Her body was buried in Elbistan.
Ali Deniz Uzatmaz
19-year-old Ali Deniz Uzatmaz had gotten into Mersin University, Department of Electrical this year. He was administrator at Labor Youth.
He was bid farewell with funeral held at Djemevi in Narlı district of Maraş on October 11.
Photos displaying Uzatmaz carrying banner of Ali İsmail Korkmaz who was killed in Gezi protests, and his friends carrying photos for him have been added.
Ziya Saygın
Vahdettin Özgan
Vahdettin Özgan was a member of HDP Üsküdar District Organization.
Her body was sent off with other members of HDP Üsküdar District Organization, Cemal Avşar, Selim Örs, Azize Onat and Ahmet Katurman who lost their lives in Ankara with the funeral held at Yavuz Sultan Selim Mosque in İstanbul. HDP Co-Chair Selahattin Demirtaş and some CHP deputies joined the funeral.
The bodies taken to Dudullu HDP district building were buried afterwards in Ihlamurkuyu Cemetery.
Cemal Avşar
Cemal Avşar was HDP Üsküdar District Organization member.
Ahmet Katurman
Selim Örs
Photo of Selim Örs, HDP Üsküdar District Organization member, taken on his way to rally in Ankara appeared on social media.
Azize Onat
Azize Onat was HDP Üsküdar District Organization member.
Dicle Deli
Günay Doğan
Günay Doğan was a third-grade student at İstanbul Technical University, Department of Civil Engineering. He was sent off at Saırgazi Taşdelen Djemevi on October 12.
Binali Korkmaz
DİHA Çukurova Office News Chief Rojda Korkmaz's father Binali Korkmaz was bid farewell at Garip Dede Djemevi in Küçükcekmece district of İstanbul on October 12.
Mehmet Zakir Karabulut
26-year-old Mehmet Zakır Karabulut was senior student at surveying engineering at Gazi Osmanpaşa University. He was buried in Bitlis on October 12.
Leyla Çiçek
23-year-old Leyla Çiçek was member of HDP Tarsus District Board member. Her body was buried in Tarsus on October 12.
Metin Peşman
Metin Peşman was board member of Pir Sultan Abdal Culture Association. His body was buried in Tarsus on October 12.
Mesut Mak
Mesut Mak was member of Tarım Orkam Sen İzmir Office Board, and EMEP. His borther Kenan Mak was killed in 1998 as he was a stuent in Bolu. He was buried in Dersim with Adil Gür on October 12.
Adil Gür
Adil Gür was member of EMEP Dersim.
Gökhan Gökbörü
Gökhan Gökbörü, 18, was from EMEP Adana Youth Organization. His body was buried in the cemetery in Yılankale neighborhood of Adana Ceyhan.
Şebnem Yurtman
23-year-old Şebnem Yurtman was a student at Mersin University and member of EMEP Adana Provincial Board.Her body was buried in Bucak village of Karaisalı district of Adana on October 12.
Osman Turan Bozacı
İdil Güneyi
52-year-old İdil Güneyi was a chief engineer at TCDD. She was a physics engineer graduated from Hacettepe University. Güneyi who is from Trabzon and the mother of one and administrator of BTS.
Abdullah Erol
Mehmet Hayta
Mehmet Hayta was CHP Malatya Youth Branch member and second-grade student at İnönü University, School of Physical Education and Sport. He was buried in his homeland, Malatya.
Özver Gökhan Arpaçay
He was buried in him homeland, Kars.
Şirin Kılıçalp
Şirin Kılıçalp (34) born in Kulu district of Konya was teaching Turkish at Hacı Ethem Üktem Secondary School in İstanbul.
Kılıçalp was an actress at Eğitim Sen İstanbul Women Stage.
Uygar Coşkun
33-year-old lawyer Uygar Coşkun was married and had one child. His colleagues issued a press statement for Coşkun in front of Ankara Courthouse. He was sent off from Batıkent Pir Sultan Djemevi.
Ahmed Alkhadi
Palestinian Ahmed Alkhadi (27) had participated the rally with Hatay community center. He was a member of Right to Live Assemblies. He was living in Antakya and teaching Arabic and English community center members and was a volunteer teacher at Community Centers Ahmet Atakan Library teaching Arabic.
A tent of condolence was set in front of his family's house in Gaza.
According to news released on Al-Vatan website, Ahmed's 63-year-old father Mahmud said, "Ahmed lastly called me on bairam and congratulated each other's bairam. He had sent bairam pocket money to his brothers. He was watching for an opportunity to return because he would be engaged here."
Nurullah Erdoğan
Nurullah Erdoğan was member of Democratic Youth Foundations Federation (DEM-GENÇ), and HDP Şişli District Organization.
Gözde Arslan
Gözde Arslan had attended the rally from Malatya. She was CHP Malatya Youth Branch member.
Aycan Kaya
Aycan Kaya was co-chair of HDP İstanbul Üsküdar District Organization. She was 42 years old and had four children. Her body was sent off from Batman on October 12.
Yunus Delice
Sevgi Öztekin
Mehmet Tevfik Dalgıç
Mehmet Tevfik Dalgıç's body was buried in Alanya.
Sevim Şinik
Sevim Şinik was among the ones going to Ankara from Alanya. Her body was buried in Alanya.
Emin Aydemir
Oğlu ile birlikte Manisa'dan mitinge gidenlerle Ankara'ya geldi. Oğlu tuvalete gittiği sırada yaşanan patlamada hayatını kaybetti.
11 Ekim'de Manisa Saruhanlı'da uğurlandı.
Fatma Karabulut
Fatma Karabulut (43) was officer at HDP Üsküdar District Directorate.
Karabulut's body was buried in her homeland, Kırkışla of Konya province.
Ramazan Tunç
Ramazan Tunç (24) was the father of four and construction worker in İstanbul.He was sent off in Van on October 12.
Erol Ekici
38-year-old Erol Ekici was a construction worker in İstanbul and member of Construction Workers' Union.
His body was bid farewell in Beşsaray village in Erizincan on October 12.
Feyat Deniz
His funeral took place in Diyarbakır on October 12. His brother, Seyitxan Deniz, speaking at the funeral said "We bury my older brother next to my father upon his will. We will never forget the ones who had us live this massacre."
Necla Duran
30-year-old Necla Duran was a community center member. She was buried in her hometown, Hatay on October 12.
Osman Ervasa
24-year-old Osman Ervasa was General Directorate of State Airports Authority (DHMİ) staff working at Ordu Airport. He was assigned to Ordu-Giresun Airport whiles he was working at Batman Airport.
Ramazan Çalışkan
35-year-old Ramazan Çalışkan was a HDP Bursa İnegöl member.
She was buried in İnegöl district of Bursa province on October 11.
Vedat Erkan
He was buried in Çelikli (Baqinê) village of Baykan (Hawêl) district of Siirt province on October 12. Vedat Erkan's father, Orhan Erkan said, "My son is martry of all of our peoples, of anyone who wants peace. Many prices were paid for this goal, that is the situation we are in now."
Abdülbari Şenci
Niyazi Büyüksütçü
Retired teacher Niyazi Büyüksütçü had actively taken part in foundation of KESK. He was the founder of Green and Left Future and co-chair of HDP Gazipaşa District.
His body was buried in Sarıyer village of Mudurnu district on October 12.
Gazi Güray
Retired worker Gazi Güray had three children. He was with the Alewite associations going to Ankara from Mersin for the rally. He was buried in Mazgirt district of Dersim on October 12.
Sabri Elmas
Sabri Elmas (67) had gone to the rally from Adana. Elmas engaging in trade had eight children. Elmas' body was buried in Silvan district of Diyarbakır on October 12.
Erhan Avcı
Erhan Avcı from Adana was a junk dealer. His body was buried in Küçükoba Cemetery in Adana on October 12.
Ümit Seylan
Ümit Seylan used to live in Tekman district of Erzurum. This year he got into Yıldırım Beyazıt University, Department of Public Finance in English. He was staying with his friend in Ankara where he came two weeks ago.
Seylan's body was identified on October 13. His body will be buried in Tekman, Erzurum.
Serdar Ben
Serdar Ben was a member of Construction Workers' Union. His body will be taken to İstanbul from Ankara Keçiören Forensics Medicine on October 14 at 1:00 p.m.
Nevzat Özbilgi
Nevzat Özbilgi, from Turkey's eastern province of Ağrı, was working at HDP İstanbul Şişli organization. His body was buried in Güneysu village at Ağrı central on October 15.
Hasan Baykara
Hasan Baykara was a marble craftsman and living in Alanya. He was married and had four children.
His wife Bediha Baykara said while waiting for DNA test results in front of Forensics, "Teacher, people from union went to Alanya from Ankara as they were heading for a wedding. He was so happy; shaved, nicely dressed. Because he was going for peace.
"I have four kids. One of my daughters married on September 1, World Peace Day. A daughter of mine studies Turkish language.
"Her father used to tease her, 'are you going to become a Turkish language teacher as a Kurd'. My daughter responded 'dad, I will teach children speak Turkish'. We were considering aging all together. My husband was the most honest man I've known. MHP supporters liked him, he had friends who are CHP supporters. We got one of our daughters married, and when the other one entered into university we happened to have a room of our own the first time. Till now, we always slept in the living room. We want our kids to feel comfortable. How many couples have you seen saying 'I love you' to each other after 23 years?"
His body was buried together with Fatma and Bedriye Batur in Alanya on October 15.
Fatma Batur
Bedriye Batur
* We've compiled this article via information on press and social media sharings.
Names of the people who lost their lives:
Abdülkadir Uyan
Metin Kürklü
Gökhan Akman
Orhan Işıktaş
Gülhan Karlı Elmascan
Yılmaz Elmascan
Nevzat Sayan
Bilgen Parlak
Hacı Kıvrak
Rıdvan Akgül
Fevzi Sert
Hacı Mehmet Şah Esin
Gökmen Dalmaç
Elif Kanlıoğlu
Hakan Dursun Akalın
Ercan Adsız
Ayşe Deniz
Berna Koç
Fatma Esen
Gülbahar Aydeniz
Eren Akın
Canberk Bakış
Tayfun Benol
Nizamettin Bağcı
Kasım Otur
Başak Sidar Çevik
Nilgün Çevik
Resul Yanar
Mehmet Ali Kılıç
Tekin Arslan
Sezen Vurmaz
Dilaver Karharman
Umut Tan
Onur Tan
Sarıgül Tüylü
Dilan Sarıkaya
Ali Kitapçı
İsmail Kızılçay
Muhammet Demir
Korkmaz Tetik
Veysel Atılgan
İbrahim Atılgan
Emine Ercan
Kübra Meltem Mollaoğlu
Meryem Bulut
Seyhan Yaylagül
Ebru Mavi
Ali Deniz Uzatmaz
Ziya Saygın
Vahdettin Özgan
Cemal Avşar
Ahmet Katurlu
Selim Örs
Azize Onat
Dicle Deli
Güney Doğan
Binali Korkmaz
Mehmet Zakir Karabulut
Leyla Çiçek
Metin Peşman
Mesut Mak
Adil Gür
Gökhan Gökbönü
Şebnem Yurtman
Osman Turan Bozacı
İdil Güneyi
Abdullah Erol
Mehmet Hayta
Özver Gökhan Arpaçay
Şirin Kılıçalp
Uygar Coşkun
Ahmed Alkhadi
Nurullah Erdoğan
Gözde Arslan
Aycan Kaya
Yunus Delice
Sevgi Öztekin
Mehmet Tevfik Dalgıç
Sevim Şinik
Emin Aydemir
Fatma Karabulut
Ramazan Tunç
Erol Ekici
Feyyat Deniz
Necla Duran
Osman Ervasa
Ramazan Çalışkan
Vedat Erkan
Abdülbari Şenci
Niyazi Büyüksütçü
Gazi Güray
Sabri Elmas
Erhan Avcı
Ümit Seylan
Serdar Ben
Hasan Baykara
Fatma Batur
Bedriye Batur
Nevzat Özbilgi
Ata Önder Atabay
Each society lives in their own deserved hell. You and people like you who build a life on hatred, grudge, self-pity and persecution became a hell to us. At least, you thought so!
There is you who stop at nothing to make money hand over fist, to rule, to persecute, and to destroy all differences hostilely and there is we who resist against the hatred, believe in life, equality, freedom, justice and solidarity and struggle for them, on the other side. You didn’t realize while you are creating the duality, turning against us and demonizing the defenders of rights, justice and equality that this hell is not for us, but it is for you. As Burhan Sönmez quoted in his nice book from Mansur al-Hallaj, “Hell is not the place we suffer in, hell is a place where no one sees us suffering.”
You deliberately created a society and a world that are deaf and dumb. You don’t care since you are overcrowded with peace and comfort and with richness you gained. You don’t care because you are in power. Just don’t care. We don’t have our eyes on your belongings. Have your untrue lives, fake connections, so-called ‘precious’ assets that mean nothing but money and ruling for you and have your ‘flamboyant’ things with you. You only aimed to play off against us but we are here and we are together. Enjoy your new hell!
You haven’t understood something: Each place, each moment, and each life that you turn into hell with the help of curse, arrogance, blood and sorrow, your lives also become hell. You will continue to deceive yourselves since you do not understand!
Corpses of children that you kept in the fridges, bodies that you butchered because they wanted peace, families of unidentified murder victims that you battered in the courts, human souls that you tortured because they wanted justice are not hell to us; they are precious to us. They are both sorrow and resistance for us. We will find a way together to survive and to build a new life even if you drowned us in sorrow.
In other words, we couldn’t banish your impertinently spilling evilness after this kind of massacre. It became a worry to us but you couldn’t either intimidate or destroy us and you cannot. You learn to live with it! They say ‘Fear is in the eye of beholder.’ Our eyes are filled with fondness, love and compassion that there is no place for fear. We aren’t either afraid of you or the state oppression. We weren’t and we will not! (ZY/HK/BD)
Click here to read the article in Turkish
Death toll will become clearer with the help of DNA
Turkish Medical Association (TTB) President Beyazıt İlhan told bianet they have identified 105 dead persons until now.
“The difference between announced death tolls results from unidentified or shattered bodies. Autopsies ended but there are disjoined organs that we couldn’t identify. We aren’t sure how many people they belonged to. We can only know the result of DNA analysis when it is declared in two or three days. Only then, the death toll will be clear. Doctors, forensic medicine and hospitals determined the number 105. We are rechecking. Peoples’ Democratic Party (HDP) mentioned 128 dead people, there can be repeating names on records.”
30 people have a risk of death
TTB President Beyazıt İlhan:
“440 injured people rushed to the hospitals after the bombing. Some of them received ambulatory treatment while others came out of hospital in a few days. More than 30 people have a risk of death, unfortunately.”
HDP: There is a mistake at the death toll we remarked
HDP Basın Bureau apologized for the wrong death toll they mentioned and condemned the Ministry of Health because they didn’t give information about the case.
İstanbul Governorate had announced the protest was not "appropriate," but the organizers of the protest had declared that their schedule for march and press release didn't change.
"We know the murderer"
Many people including TMMOB and DİSK administrators, People's Republican Party (CHP) deputy Mahmut Tanal and Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) deputies Hüda Kaya, Sezai Temelli gathered in Sirkeci.
Süleyman Korkmaz from TMMOB reminded of the officials' statement "There was no security weakness" and said the following:
CHP deputy Mahmut Tanal called police "Don't be a party in these massacres, be people's police."
HDP deputy Hüda Kaya said, "Our people saying we will not make you fightare trying to be presented as terrorist. We will not let them hide the truth. We will realize peace. You thieves, tyrants, terrorists, we will bring you to account."
Sit-in act
After the speeches, the groups in Sirkeci and Cerrahpaşa started a sit-in act. They ended the act as the police barricade wasn't removed.
Police intervention in Cerrahpaşa
Those who gathered in Cerrahpaşa met with police barricade. There were HDP İstanbul deputy Beyza Üstün, Garo Paylan, and Ali Kenanoğlu too among the protesters. The sit-in act began because of the police barricade in Cerrahpaşa.
Police attacked on sit-in holders.
Altıparmak stating that arrestment is a measure taken after the crime is committed proceeds as follows:
"However, a person in preparation for suicide bombing doesn't obviously doesn't act on his/her own, he/she is a member of an organization. Then you gather intelligence, take legal action over organization membership, and judge pursuant to evidences."
ECHR's Mc Cann verdict
"Three IRA militants planning to stage bombing in Gibraltar were shot to death just before they detonated the bomb.
"Their families went to ECHR. Government of England says, 'They were about to blow up a bomb, we shot them to prevent it and protect other people's right to live.'
"And ECHR says, "The shooters cannot be held responsible but there is a responsibility in terms of the organization of the operation because you could have stopped these people without killing them as well. You violated their right to live by not doing that.
Altıparmak drawing attention to the responsibility of the government with respect to the bomb attack that claimed 97 lives, states that not being able to make an arrest before the act doesn't justify lack of precaution.
Altıparmak expressing if there are people whom the state suspects, then they should be monitored said, "In this case, either the state was informed of other actors, but not this one, or it knew about it but didn't monitor."
"While arresting those issuing press statement..."
Altıparmak reminding of that people may be arrested for issuing a press statement according to Turkish Penal Code (TCK) 220 "Though not being a member of the organization, committing crime on behalf of it," proceeds as follows:
"A person in preparation for suicide bombing doesn't obviously act on his own, he/she is a member of an organization.
"hen you gather intelligence, take legal action over organization membership, and judge pursuant to evidences."
"No one can justify such a ridiculous thing"
"Let alone arresting, a claim must have been filed a long time ago for such people whom are thought to be suicide bombers. They wait till it explodes. Can there be such a ridiculous thing?
“Are you a dictator?”
Upon the question “People are afraid of you. Some say that you are a ‘dictator’. What do you think about?” from a Finnish journalist, Tom Kankkonen,
DDK was appointed
Reminding militant organizations like Armenian Secret Army for the Liberation of Armenia (ASALA), Kurdistan Workers’ Party (PKK) and Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS) have been attacking for 40 years, Erdoğan expressed that he appointed the State Supervisory Council (DDK) for Ankara bombing.
“All possibilities of DAESH (ISIS), PKK, Democratic Union Party (PYD) and Revolutionary People's Liberation Party–Front (DHKP-C) should be investigated. I hope we will invalidate their attempts. We have our duties in these times when our fellowship is tested.”
“First said it was deep state and then hid away”
"Some say it was the deep state that carried out Ankara bombing. How do they know? These are just gossips. They first said it was deep state and then hid. The attackers will come out.
"It is untrue to call on someone to resign after every incident. I govern the state and I am a human. Everyone makes mistakes. The ones who call the government to resign should resign themselves since they couldn’t manage to come to power. "National Intelligence Organization carries us the necessary information while DNA analysis has been carried out for the dead bodies. We learned some preparations had been made before the bomb attack in Ankara. It may be related to Syria.”
Erdoğan left carnations
The President Erdoğan, his wife Emine Erdoğan and the President of Finland, Sauli Niinistö, left carnations on the place where Ankara bombing occurred. (NV/BD)
Click here to read the article in Turkish
Stand in silence for 97 people killed in bombing in Labor, Peace, Democracy rally in Ankara was staged prior to EURO 2016 qualifying game between Turkey National Football Team and Iceland National Team.
At national match in Konya, fans whistled and chanted slogans disregarding moment of silence for Ankara victims https://t.co/MC2JXeSgCp
— Louis Fishman (@Istanbultelaviv) October 13, 2015
At a football match, a moment of silence for the 97 Ankara victims turns into a moment of shame. Hard to watch. https://t.co/WxFUdD1nUH
— Piotr Zalewski (@p_zalewski) October 13, 2015
In #Konya you won a match but lost your conscience and brotherhood. Congratulations and Shame (Pick whatever suits you)! #EURO2016 #Turkey
— Mohammad BehzadFatmi (@BehzadFatmi) October 13, 2015
“The quieter you become, the more you are able to hear.” Mevlana, to t/ heartless fascists who shouted in Konya during Turkey's match.
— Alex Mahmoud (@alexonica) October 13, 2015
What polarization looks like: At Konya football match fans whistle & boo during moment of silence for Ankara victims https://t.co/cfMeyrWn3S
— Noah Blaser (@nblaser18) October 13, 2015
Turkey enters EURO 2016
Turkey winning the game with the free-kick by Selçuk İnan at 89th minute has qualified for EURO 2016 to be held in France.
Turkey completed the game with 10 players because the red card shown to Gökhan Töre at 77th minute.
Mehter anthem was played at the stadium by the end of the game. (EKN/TK)
Minister of the Interior doesn't resign
When he was asked if he should resign or not, Minister of the Interior, Selami Altınok, answered there was no security gap. Altınok stated on October 12, “I will make an evaluation after the case was concluded due to political disputes.”
Altınok added they would take additional measures.
Prime Ministry Coordination Center asserted on October 11 that two chief civil inspectors and two chief police inspectors were appointed related to the subject.
On October 11, Ankara Criminal Court of Peace gave a confidentiality order for the investigation.
The production of the festival that will last until October 28 is being undertaken by artist collective Köşe from Yeldeğirmeni neighborhood of Kadıköy district. The performances to be staged in Kadıköy and Beyoğlu are composed of dance, theater and music shows.
Neighbor but far
Artists from Syria, Armenia, Greece, Lebanon, Turkey and Iran partake in the festival intending to bring together the artists who make production in nearby geographies but cannot find the chance to watch and experience each others' works, and develop dialogue by sharing the same stage.
Questions & Answers conversations will be held with the participation of the artists after premier of each performance in the festival. In the Residency section of the festival, artists' works that are produced during their 1-month visit in İstanbul will be exhibited.
Festival question
Question of the festival, which will be organized the first time this year, is about the way art paved: "How do our artistic experiences transform our imagination as to what is possible in the world?"
One of prominent works of the festival, "Camera is here: Shorts from Syria", is a selection of short movies thinking on different experiences lived in Syria.
The selection will be showing at Halka Sanat, ArtHereIstanbul, Atölye Hangart and Komşu Kafe till the end of the festival between the hours of 11:00:19:00.
The performance named "Kurtuluş'ta Oturuyorum" (I live in Kurtuluş) will be staged at Moda Aramyan Uncuyan Derneği. The work defined as "show trial" is introduced in the program as follows:
"It is about songs that shaped us, that we sang at the top of our voice and danced without knowing them in İstanbul, Beirut, Paris, London, Montreal, Buenos Aires, Sao Paolo, Cairo. Tape recordings, archive sounds, buckling and cliche songs, maybe Anatolian folk dances, and a bit of live music and dance, and color of course!"
Here is the festival program:
Click here to read the article in Turkish
It was also stated that Y.E.A was in the suspect list of National Intelligence Organization (MİT).
Keneş had been arrested for allegedly insulting the President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan via his twitter account.
According to Zaman daily, Keneş’s lawyers objected the arrestment.
Lawyer Hasan Günaydın made a petition of objection to İstanbul 7th Criminal Court of Peace and İstanbul 8th Criminal Court of Peace evaluated the objection and discharged Keneş.
Different decisions
Keneş was sent to İstanbul 4th Criminal Court of Peace for arrest with charges he insulted Erdoğan via twitter but he was released with judicial control decision.
However, the prosecutor objected the releasement of Keneş claiming he tweeted ‘I will make them feel sorry!’ about the case.
The same court issued an arrest warrant for Keneş.
Editor-in-Chief Keneş, had been detained and then arrested on October 10, 2015. (YY/BD)
Minister of Energy and Natural Resources Ali Rıza Alaboyun as to the subject said, "For the moment the first comers are Chinese and American Westinghouse firm. A memorandum of understanding is signed. Japan has also some interest in it."
İğneada town is on the Black Sea coastline of Thrace.
There is Deep Spot National Park
There is 3155-hectar Deep Spot woods National Park in the district known with its Deep Spot forest.
According to information on website of Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs, İğneada is on important migratory routes of birds and contain biological diversity due to hosting different plant and animal forms.
WWF: Even a small industrial plant must not be built
WWF- Turkey Conservation of Nature Director Sedat Kalem: İğneada Deep Spot is among 122 Important Plant Sites in Turkey. İğneada Deep Spot is extremely important due to its rich dune and wetland flora that host certain plant forms that are protected by international agreements.
İğneada's importance for nature makes it a place that should be kept off from any construction. Let alone a nuclear power plant, even a small industrial plant may destroy the delicate balance here. Turkey needs to focus on more environment-friendly sources like sun and wind to meet its energy need.
Türkkan: They want nuclear instead of bringing doctor
WWF-Turkey Presiden Nusret Türkkan:
Europe's 3,200 plant forms out of 12,000 are here. Deep Spot forest hosts extinct wild animals. This is where the largest fish population nest. But this place wants to be destroyed by energy projects. As a consequence of our struggle, we managed to prevent thermal plant. We need doctors, teachers, why don't they deal with these?
KOS: Neither thermic nor nuclear
Onur Akgül from KOS:
Click here to read the article in Turkish
I was very young when I imagined of getting old. I used to blow soul to my aged version, painless. Then I would have her sit on my one-seater sofa and slip her the coffee mug. I don't know why, it was always rainy in my dreams. As my aged version was watching people escaping from rain, and nature meeting rain, I was watching her, especially the convolution of her face that left its miseries behind.
As the film frames began to reflect on the screen, memories locked heavily in my subconscious surfaced. My surfaced memories tried to match with frames in the move, but they couldn't. They didn't harmonize, but contradicted. The contradictions turned into questions and enquiries. I couldn't stop them. I got tired. In order to get some answer, I took my diary belong to year 93. It didn't burn this time. I opened it carefully, I started to read. The main sections I need to read were post July 2. I started to write my thoughts piece by piece telling mysel "You are strong enough to settle old scores Elif. It is not time to cry, but to bring to book."
I am not a movie critic but a witness. These are the criticism of a witness. Have you seen my photo named "Last Breath Before the Fire"? The second one on the right is Carina. Carina was blonde and short haired. I waited to see in the movie the corridor where we had waited for hours. Yes, we waited in a corridor for hours because we were constantly being pelted. The sound of windows breaking...We were at the upstairs of the hotel. You may wonder how those stones reached the upper floor. They were on the roofs of surrounding buildings. It is as traumatic scene as to distort one's memory, don't you think it should have a place in the movie? I leave it to you.
Before listing my criticisms regarding the scenes one by one, let me initially ask this: Is it ethical to reflect a real historical incident far from its reality by hiding behind the concept of fiction?
In the first scene, I had a problem with Carina's Turkish. I didn't know Carina spoke Turkish well enough to communicate with me. I didn't make a big deal out of it by giving the director credit for resorting to fiction. However, I couldn't just move ahead when I saw the characters of Asuman and Yasemin. Asuman was our whirling teacher, she was authoritarian despite being younger than us. She wouldn't tolerate even a single mistake during the teaching. We were obeying her as primary school students. Yasemin was as delicate as yasemin (jasmine) flower. She spoke distinctly and calmly. Yasemin was wise. Sivri family indeed will evaluate their daughters' character much better but I couldn't see their true characters in the movie.
In the movie, I couldn't find the sites belong to our history. Let alone the past sites, I couldn't meet with any sites in the movie. The only place where I can call site was Amsterdam streets fondling my eyes. I don't know how movie critics assess lack of site.
The main theme begins with the bus trip. I don't give the sketches of bus trip to the director as a right to fictionalize. Those who didn't see the movie or forgot about it, let me write both of the sketches. The sketches are imitation of Süleyman Demirel. In the first sketch, Demirel says "They call your political rival son of the people. He is son of the people, and are we son of a bitch?" Second sketch: "Are you going to shut down the brothels? Wouldn't people f.ck us if we shut down the brothels?"
I don't recall such sketches played during the bus trip. Of course, me not remembering doesn't entail that it didn't happen. But are these the essential incidents of a 5-6 hour bus trip to be reflected in the movie? Do the subliminal reading of it. "Alewis are disrespectful towards their statesmen. Thus, they deserve violence."
When the story arrived in Sivas, I started to seek sites again, which of course I couldn't find. The frames were beginning to make you forget the lack of site: A headman and a couple of provoked Muslims. Us being set on fire was not the work of a couple of men.
Before we moved to the hotel, we were eating at a restaurant close to it. As Allahu Akbar flavored screams filled the air we stopped eating and headed for the windows. In front of the crowd, there were hundreds of people ranging in age from 20 to 25. They were leading the crowd. It was easily understood by their movements that they were militants. That mass wandered around the streets chanting in company with police. When we came to conclude that police will not do anything about it, we moved to the hotel.
If we accept several Muslims and their headman nearby in the director's fiction as truth, then what will we do with the militants I saw, former special forces first lieutenant H.Ç.'s confessions in his statement to Özgür Gündem newspaper, and Erdal İnönü's conversation with then undersecretary of National Intelligence Agency? May these information trouble the director.
Let me move to another scene. There is a scene taking place where I assume to be inside of madrasa. There are four people including Aziz Nesin and Hasret Gültekin. Gültekin says to Nesin "I've understood Turan Dursun, not you. I've found myself in him." (The words may not be exactly like that but that is the meaning.)
First of all, Aziz Nesin -those who know him know this better- is not someone who one could make arbitrary sentences. Once I had made this mistake and then nicely snubbed.
Well, let us not characterize Aziz Nesin based on my one-time experience. But what about the subliminal reading of this scene? Doesn't this scene introduce Nesin as someone inadequate? What does come out when you combine subliminal reading of this scene and the scene in which the targets in Headman's talks are not Alewis but Aziz Nesin? Alewis being side by side with an incompetent as well as a sharp-tongued man like Aziz Nesin cost their lives.
Even though I don't think the director deliberately shot scenes open to such subliminal readings, I believe the intention should be seriously questioned. I still have tons of questions but let me stop here. The director has left the criticisms unanswered hiding behind the concept of fiction. Well, then wouldn't it be fair to ask why did you use real footage if this movie was not a documentary but fictional?
This is a movie that we are in common with respect to its subject, but which I disagree with respect to its fiction. (ED/ÇT/TK)
Click here to read the article in Turkish
Casualties
The situation of the casualties:
*Ankara Numune Education and Research Hospital: intensive care unit (5), clinics (17)
*Dışkapı Yıldırım Beyazıt Education and Research Hospital: intensive care unit (3), clinics (8)
*Ankara Atatürk Education and Research Hospital: intensive care unit (1), clinics (3)
*Ankara Education and Research Hospital: intensive care unit (2), clinics (8)
*Gazi University Medical Faculty: intensive care unit (1), clinics (3)
*Hacettepe University Medical Faculty: intensive care unit (3), clinics (5)
*Ankara University Medical Faculty: İbni Sina Hospital: intensive care unit (2), clinics (14)
*Başkent University Medical Faculty: intensive care unit (1), clinics (1)
*Turgut Özal University Hospital: 2 yaralı yoğun bakım servisinde tedavi altında.
* Gulhane Military Medical Academy (G.A.T.A): clinics (1)
*Private hospitals (9) (YY/BD)
People who lost their lives:
1.
ABDÜLKADİR UYAN
2.
ABDULBARİ ŞENCİ
3.
ABDULLAH EROL
4.
ADİL GÜR
5.
AHMAD ALKHALDI
6.
AHMET KATURLU
7.
AHMET KOTOLON
8.
ALİ DENİZ UZATMAZ
9.
ALİ KİTAPÇI
10.
AYCAN KAYA
11.
AYŞE DENİZ
12.
AZİZE ONAT
13.
BAŞAK SİDAR ÇEVİK
14.
BEDRİYE BATUR
15.
BERNA KOÇ
16.
BİLGEN PARLAK
17.
BİNALİ KORKMAZ
18.
CANBERK BAKIŞ
19.
CEMAL AVŞAR
20.
ÇETİN KÜRKLÜ
21.
DİCLE DELİ
22.
DİLAN SARIKAYA
23.
DİLAVER KAHARMAN
24.
EBRU MAVİ
25.
ELİF KANLIOĞLU
26.
EMİN AYDEMİR
27.
EMİNE ERCAN
28.
EMRULLAH ERDOĞAN
29.
EREN AKIN
30.
ERHAN AVCI
31.
EROL EKİCİ
32.
ERSİN ADSIZ
33.
FATMA BATUR
34.
FATMA ESEN
35.
FATMA KARAKURT
36.
FEVZİ SERT
37.
FEYYAT DENİZ
38.
GAZİ GÜRAY
39.
GÖKHAN AKMAN
40.
GÖKHAN GÖKBÖNÜ
41.
GÖKMEN DALMAÇ
42.
GÖZDE ASLAN
43.
GÜLBAHAR AYDENİZ
44.
GÜLHAN ELMASCAN
45.
GÜNAY DOĞAN
46.
HACI KIVRAK
47.
HAKAN DURSUN AKALIN
48.
HASAN BAYKARA
49.
HASAN SANCALI
50.
İBRAHİM ATILGAN
51.
İDİL GÜNEY
52.
İSMAİL KIZILÇAY
53.
KASIM OTUR
54.
KEMAL TAYFUN BENOL
55.
KORKMAZ TEDİK
56.
KÜBRA MELTEM MOLLAOĞLU
57.
LEYLA ÇİÇEK
58.
MEHMET ALİ KILIÇ
59.
MEHMET HAYTA
60.
MEHMET ŞAH ESİN
61.
MEHMET TEVFİK DALGIÇ
62.
MERYEM BULUT
63.
MESUT MAK
64.
METİN KÜRKLÜ
65.
METİN PEŞMEN
66.
METİN TESMEN
67.
MUHAMMET DEMİR
68.
MUHAMMET VEYSEL ATILGAN
69.
MUHAMMET ZAKİR KARABULUT
70.
NECLA DURAN
71.
NEVZAT ÖZBİLGİ
72.
NEVZAT SAYAN
73.
NİLGÜN ÇEVİK
74.
NİYAZİ BÜYÜKSÜTÇÜ
75.
NİZAMETTİN BAĞCI
76.
NURULLAH ERDOĞAN
77.
ONUR TAN
78.
ORHAN IŞIKTAŞ
79.
OSMAN ERVASA
80.
OSMAN TURAN BOZACI
81.
ÖZVER GÖKHAN ARPAÇAY
82.
RAMAZAN ÇALIŞKAN
83.
RAMAZAN TUNÇ
84.
RESUL YANAR
85.
RIDVAN AKGÜL
86.
SABRİ ALMAZ
87.
SARIGÜL TÜYLÜ
88.
SELİM ÖRS
89.
SERDAR BEN
90.
SEVGİ ÖZTEKİN
91.
SEVİM ŞİNİK
92.
SEYHAN YAYLAGÜL
93.
SEZEN VURMAZ
94.
ŞEBNEM YURTMAN
95.
ŞİRİN KILIÇALP
96.
TEKİN ARSLAN
97.
UMUT TAN
98.
UYGAR COŞKUN
99.
ÜMİT SEYLAN
100.
VADDETTİN KÜMEK
101.
VAHDETTİN ÖZGAN
102.
VEDAT ERKAN
103.
YILMAZ ELMASCAN
104.
YUNUS DELİCE
105.
YUSUF AKDAĞ
106.
A top-secret operation of a very powerful intelligence agency of a great state...Or an organization's highly discreet work...
Now let us turn to incidents on October 10.
According to instructions, let us repeat when they "use gas":
Are the "security forces" at a protest that requires special skill?? Let's pas.
So who uses it?It is used according to the instructions by staff who received "Course of Using Tear Inducing Gas and Gas Masks."
I don't know if interior minister ever exposed to this gas. Let me remind that this gas is not a fart. It has some acute effects making people feel like dying, breaking exposed down in tears, and make them heave as the inner organs will pop out.
Who are those using tear inducing gas that affects wounded on the ground and may even result in death affiliated to? Government? State? How separate are these two? Isn't the 13-year-long government party commanding the state?
The "security" forces that fire gas on a site where there are tens of wounded people and others trying to aid them may be affected.
They are right (!), the security is at Sıhhiye square! They had taken security measures at the meeting site, this place is 1-2 kilometers away from it.
And there are some people who say "murderer state" without thinking. State and government are separate things!
Click here to read the article in Turkish
Bianet asked İpekyüz about the game in which Turkey beat Iceland with 1-0, fans booing the stand in silence staged for 97 people killed in Ankara chanted Allahu Akbar.
“Sharing” or “Marginalization”?
We lived through Reyhanlı bombings, Diyarbakır and Suruç explosions and now Ankara… What kind of traumas are being observed among the society following these kinds of great disasters?
People are shocked by these kinds of disasters and these disasters make people angry, worried and hopeless. The actors of the society step in and you see the titles “sharing” or “marginalization”.
The anger diminishes when solidarity increases and the sorrow is shared and turns into mourning. If it doesn’t happen, desperation, hate and revenge increase.
Societies like Turkey have a potential of being polarized. When the pain isn’t commonized and the solidarity isn’t strengthened, people drift away from each other with hate and grudge.
“That football match in Konya was a part of social trauma”
Stand in silence for 97 people killed in Ankara bombing was staged prior to EURO 2016 qualifying game between Turkey National Football Team and Iceland National Team. As football players started to stand in silence, fans first whistled then chanted Allahu Akbar and shouted "Martyrs are immortal our land is indivisible". Does it result from the trauma has been built up over years?
It is a part of social trauma and it is very dangerous. We can’t ignore that. Reacting to it as if it is normal is abnormal.
“Why does this society know each other wrong and why does this hate grow? Who does contribute this hate speech? We should get to the bottom of it.
I mean, we should look at many years before.
Yes, if we don’t do that and don’t answer these questions, the polarization increases day by day.
“We prefer throwing disasters into our subconscious”
Do we forget these kinds of disasters or we unwittingly throw them into our subconscious? Reyhanlı bombing had been talked over but it was off the agenda when Suruç explosion occurred. And then Suruç was forgotten. How can you interpret it?
We usually prefer throwing disasters into our subconscious if we don’t face a really serious disaster.
However; burying, hiding and ignoring the disasters are jeopardous since you wouldn’t know when they break out again. That’s why, we should share the sorrow and develop coping skills.
We say in Turkey: “In joy and sorrow, we are together.” This togetherness fades away day by day. We don’t know what it evolves into.
“The fault ones leave carnations days after the disaster”
It was striking when New York Times captioned Deadly Ankara Attack Not Enough to Unify a Polarized Turkey. What can you say about the responsibilities of politicians?
Their responsibilities are huge. The ideal norm is that politicians gather people. However, when you look at Turkey you see politicians discriminating and consolidating their own party alignments.
It is attention grabbing that people can’t come together after a disaster took place at the hands of human actions. They easily and comfortably talk about the disaster after three or four days and they leave carnations for the dead.
For example, when a factory burns down, the boss is near his employees and workers if he has taken due precautions but if he is faulty about the fire, he visits the burnt down factory many days after.
Therefore, politicians should take on responsibility.
Moreover, politicians shouldn’t practice hate speech, they should use a common language sharing the sorrow.
“Politicians couldn’t manage the crisis”
Well, do you think politicians could get through these disasters?
“The society is anxious”
Does social trauma decrease the belief in justice?
Of course, it does. Mentioning justice and law is nonsense in Turkey. You see the examples when you look at the judicial process in the country.
When the traumas aren’t eliminated, the sense of justice belonging to the society is damaged. The society is anxious now because the justice isn’t administered.
“Psychological counseling of the state is only for show”
What should victims of the disaster do in order to overcome it?
We all lived through it and are badly affected by it as victims, victims’ families and casualties.
First degree relatives of the victims and casualties need major support. They need empathy, solidarity and their sorrows to be shared.
If they have serious problems –it would be surprising if they hadn’t-, they should seek professional help.
Speaking of professional help, psychological counseling requires huge amounts of money in our country. Does the state fund those who need help?
Environment Minister of France, Ségolène Royal, has expressed that one of the sponsors of the climate summit to be held in Paris, Engie that aims to build thermal plant on İskenderun Gulf will stop its investments in coal.
In the same day, Engie CEO Gérard Mestrallet giving an interview to Le Figaro said this decision includes Turkey (Ada Thermal Plant) as well.
French minister Royal in his statement said, "We can't keep investing in fossil fuel while battling disastrous consequences of climate change."
A letter was sent to Hollande
A joint letter by 35 national and international NGOs including İskenderun Environment Protection Association and Greenpeace Mediterranean, WWF, the Turkish Foundation for Combating Erosion Reforestation and the Protection of Natural Habits (TEMA), Ecology Collective was sent to President of France François Hollande on October 7.
On a TV Show at channel TGRT, Davutoğlu reminded 2 people already had been detained yesterday, so 12 people were detained in total.
Davutoğlu disclosed summarily:
“Taking careful steps and investigating the involved actors of the incident are necessary.
“First traces took us to DAESH (Islamic State of Iraq and Syria/ISIS). Not only the identities of the suicide bombers but also their collaborators are important.
"Some of the detainees are linked to Kurdistan Workers’ Party (PKK) while others are related to DAESH.
“We followed other traces via twitter and could see those involved actors had made some preparations before the attack. We have made a point.” (EKN/BD)
Click here to read the article in Turkish
Psychiatrist Ayşe Devrim Çıngı Başterzi from Mersin University Medical Faculty, Department of Psychiatry answered questions of bianet.
Başterzi saying "A psychological disorder or brainwash is beside the point here," states that suicide bomber perceives everyone he/she kills as enemy.
Başterzi reminding such attacks are referred as "suicide act" and "suicide bomber," said that "living bomb" expression causes a perception as human body were a military tool used in war: "However when we say suicide bomber then we mean 'a person can slaughter plenty of people though he knows he is going to die'."
"Suicide bomber perceives them all as enemy"
"A suicide bomber knows that he/she destroys plenty of people but perceive all these people as enemy. He thinks he is paving the way by destroying the enemy for those who he left behind. There might be some people who thinks heaven's gates are opened to them.
"According to studies, it is thought that being alienated within the organization or not being found heroic enough increases the possibility of giving the decision of becoming a suicide bomber.
"So it is a bad and a sick way to deal with trauma. It can be said that it is closely related to anger of oppressed. It also seems that the thought of gaining prestige and value at the end of this act is significant too."
Why more common in Middle East?
Başterzi stating that suicide act cannot be explained by brainwash.
"It is often said that they are given drugs but it is a rare case for a person on drugs to afford it. There is no state of sickness nor being misled, they do it with their faith in the legitimacy of the cause."
So what explains best why suicide acts are seen more common in the Middle East?
We don't recognize the ban since we know rulings such as blocking access to websites is a major blow dealt on liberty of the press and trample on liberty of the press.
We don't recognize it because not only the right to make news but also the right to receive news of citizens are being blocked whilst one of the biggest and bloody massacres have been experienced.
We don't recognize it because by means of broadcast ban not only liberty of the press but also freedom of expression rights are being violated.
Right to receive news
Any sort of development as to the bombing that left 99 people dead, and hundreds of others wounded is a news. The citizens have the right to be informed about these developments; informing people falls to us, journalists.
Ban ruling
Ankara 6th Judicatory Court of Peace has imposed broadcast ban on the investigation as to attack by two suicide bombers at Labor, Peace, Democracy rally on October 10 in Ankara.
The ruling was issued with the inscription "urgent" to media outlets by Ankara Chief Public Prosecutor's Office Bureau of Investigating Crimes Against Constitutional Order on October 12.
Prime Minister has transgressed
A day after the broadcast ban ruling, Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoğlu gave information regarding the investigation on TGRT live broadcast at 1:30 p.m. 10 people have been taken into custody due to their tweets prior to attack, and he gave this information even though their affiliation with organizations have yet to be clarified.
The ban is null
We bring the ruling to trial
bianet lawyers and lawyers of media outlets will object to this broadcast ban ruling today and take all kinds of legal actions for it to be declared null and void.
bianet
Kocaeli University Forensic Expert Professor Doctor Ümit Biçer stated the identity of the perpetrators cannot be found if there is no specimen to be compared with and his/her relatives aren’t known; even if proofs are found on the crime scene.
Prof. Dr. Biçer contradicted by stating only fingerprints can’t prove a person’s citizenship.
“If he had come from abroad, his passport or international collaboration can solve the problem. It is not unsolvable.”
“Classification of the evidences may take long”
Forensic Medicine works hard. If there is a proper tissue sample, DNA results can come out even in a day.
Of course there should be a specimen to compare with. Classification of the evidences may take long.
“It was in accordance with standards”
Prof. Dr. Biçer:
“I was on the crime scene 40 minutes after the explosion. When I arrived there, there were no injured people, all of them had been taken to the hospitals.
“People ran away in different directions with panic. There may be a possibility for the evidences to have been damaged but it can be excused when you look at the size of the case. People may complain about the delay.
“However, crime scene was preserved with tapes. I could say the investigation was in accordance with standards while mortal remains were taken, evidences were collected and photographs were taken.
“Evidence bags were used not plastic bags”
“Evidences scattered far away due to the explosions. It was difficult to collect all of them. There wasn't a critical failure of the crime scene investigation team. I observed most of the evidences were collected.
“It was said that the evidences were put into plastic bags but they weren’t. We were there till the dead bodies were taken away. Evidence bags were used according to the international standards.
"It is not national park site"
Eroğlu attending a mass opening ceremony in Sultandağı district of Afyonkarahisar province stated that the site where nuclear power plant work is being done is not within national park site.
"First of all, the works that are being done regarding İğneada are not within our protected area. Secondly, there is neither such a demand nor an application. The minister only stated that there are such efforts here.
I would especially like to emphasize that the site is entirely out of the protected area."
The Council gathered under the chairmanship of Council Deputy Speaker Ali İhsan Ölmez and the name “Democracy Square” was suggested after Ankara bombing which left 100 people dead.
Council members from Justice and Development Party (AKP) supported the suggestion while council members from Republican People’s Party (CHP) offered the name “Peace Square”. Nationalist Movement Party (MHP) members requested the name should be changed and renegotiated at a different date.
However, the name “Democracy Square” was decided by the majority of votes.
We've compiled news by Fevzi Koyun from Hürriyet daily, İsmail Saymaz from Radikal daily, İsmail Saymaz from Cumhuriyet daily, Alican Uludağ, and Fırat Kozok.
Intelligence as to attack had come
It was determined that Alagöz and Dündar went to Gölbaşı district of Ankara from Antep by car. The suicide bombers taking a taxi went to a cafe in Balgat where they waited for the rally.
Alagöz and Dündar went to terminal square by taxi, waited at separate points for the participants to gather and executed the bombing.
Three days before the Ankara bombing, the information that there might be a suicide bombing or bomb attack on the rally by a group of 16 people was shared.
Vehicle owner who brought the attackers in Antep, driver of the vehicle and three people who were allegedly guiding were seized. Two people thought to be related to those people in addition to thee people linked with Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS), in total eight suspects were detained.
Attacker's older sister notified Prime Ministry and Presidency
Here are the notes from the article titled "She notified human bomb to both Prime Ministry and Presidency" by İsmail Saymaz from Radikal:
It has come to light that Ömer Deniz Dündar's older sister Fatma Dündar had notified and brought a complaint to both Prime Ministry Communication Center (BİMER) two years ago.
Fatma Dündar in her application and complaint no. 789498 to BİMER said, "Many youngsters are being taken to Syria in Adıyaman. My two brothers have been missing for 15 days. As we filed a missing persons report we learned that there are around 100 families having the same issue and no one can find a solution for this problem."
Dündar wrote these in her complaint to Presidency on September 24, 2013: My 20-year-old twin brother were taken to Syria with the idea of jihad. (...) Neither security forces nor prosecution has stepped in. We wrote this to BİMER but no one has replied yet. The families are devastated."
Al Qaeda case file of two bombers was closed
Here are notes from Saymaz's article titled "Ankara and Suruç Human Bombs were Investigated and Their Case Files Closed":
Leader of ISIS cell called "Dokumacılar," Mustafa Dokumacı, and his two friends fighting in Syria like him were sued over the charges of "Membership of Al Qaeda armed group in Adıyaman last year.
However, within the scope of the same investigation, non-prosecution was decided for 19 people including Suruç bomber Şeyh Abdurrahman Alagöz and Ankara bomber Ömer Deniz Dündar and his twin Mahmut Gazi Dündar.
Claim that plan was made in Kilis
Here are notes from article titled "Massacre Plan was Made in Kilis" by Fırat Kozok from Cumhuriyet newspaper:
According to allegations, a group of ISIS members went to border village in Elbeyli district of Kilis one day before the explosion.
After the initial meeting, the militants again crossing into Syria brought along two people who would become the suicide bombers. Those two were delivered to Ankara group. Suicide bombers were brought to Ankara by midnight.
There was arrest warrant on two bombers
Here are the notes from article titled "Suicide Bombers were Officially being Looked For" by Alican Uludağ from Cumhuriyet:
It has surfaced that arrest warrant was issued by Adıyaman Chief Public Prosecutor's Office on human bombs who carried out Ankara massacre which left 99 people dead.
It is learned that within the scope of ISIS investigation in Adıyaman, arrest warrant was issued on Suruç massacre executer Şeyh Abdurrahman Alagöz's brother Yunus Emre Alagöz on July 23 and on Ömer Deniz Dündar on July 26.
Demirtaş: Dialogue opportunities should be kept open
Demirtaş explained the journalists after the meeting:
“I hope all politicians will be brave enough to keep dialogue opportunities open. We are humans and we are traumatized by the recent events. If we don’t solve the problems, we shouldn’t walk around as ‘politicians’. Prime Minister’s blaming behaviors created a huge political gap, but Kılıçdaroğlu behaved maturely, something that I appreciate.
“There is a state structure protecting ISIS”
“Investigation prosecutor had informed us the perpetrators –suicide bombers- of Ankara bombing were linked to Diyarbakır and Suruç explosions.
All of them will be revealed, to whom they were linked to, by whom they were supported and so on. And of course, related politicians will be revealed.
There is a strong structure among the state protecting Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS). They have solid connections.
“How did they go to Syria?”
“Davutoğlu’s speech, “The state has no security gap” makes us worried. How could he say the state is as pure as the driven snow even if the investigation isn’t over yet? As a Prime Minister, you don’t know the state is involved or not.
“We seriously believe that this case won’t be revealed totally. They may have come from Syria but how did they go to Syria? Who are responsible from these events?
Kılıçdaroğlu: Why did people die if there isn’t security gap?
CH Leader Kılıçdaroğlu:
Click here to read the article in Turkish
TSK operations
* A period of clashes has begun with PKK acts and comprehensive police operations against civilian settlements following Turkish Armed Forces (TSK) launching aerial operations on Qandil on July 24, 2015.
* In the first 9 months of 2015, primarily in the first three months of it, 105 security officers lost their lives while 254 others wounded. 104 PKK members died while four others wounded.
* While nine civilians caught in the conflict died during the operation, 40 citizens wounded. 80 people were seized by PKK members.
Crimes against humanity
* Serious crimes against humanity were committed. Body of HPG militant Kevsel Altürk, who lost his life in the conflict in Varto district of Muş province was exposed.
* Hacı Lokman Birlik who was killed by security forces opening fire in Şırnak central was dragged by an armored police vehicle.
Curfews
* As civilians killed in the operations carried out following the curfews, artillery shootings were fired by tanks on neighbors.
* In the nine months, 63 civilians killed while 93 others wounded. Hundreds of residence and workplaces damaged, rights to access treatment, energy, and communication were violated.
Raids on houses
* In the very early morning hours, 1975 home raids were carried out while mostly by means of breaking the doors. Gun was put on the head of residents of the houses which were exposed to raid. They also had to endure beating, battering, torture and maltreating.
* 3,654 people, including 293 children, were detained in mostly house raids and social protests. 788 people, including 41 children were arrested.
Right to vote and stand for election
Son iki ayda Demokratik Bölgeler Partisi’nden (DBP) 17 Belediye Eş Başkanı ile onlarca Belediye Meclis Üyesi tutuklandı veya atanmış bir İçişleri Bakanı tarafından görevden alındı. (AS)
In the last two months, 17 co-mayors from Democratic Regions Party (DBP), and tens of aldermen were arrested or unseated by an appointed interior minister. (AS/TK)
After the meeting, Davutoğlu and Merkel issued a joint declaration. Davutoğlu also announced that a similar meeting will be held in Jauary.
"We, as Turkey are ready to work against human trafficking. Turkey has been attaching importance on a fair approach on the distribution of refugees. Turkey has been left alone in that.
"We are spending some serious efforts to finalize Schengen issue in 2016 that was initially planned for 2017. We hope by July of 2016, both readmission agreement and Schengen deal will go in effect."
The German chancellor met with Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan at Yıldız Palace after her meeting with Davutoğlu. Merkel speaking in the joint press conference following the meeting said, "Several working groups will be formed. Our next meeting will be at G-20 summit in Antalya."
Merkel: Share of inconvenience
Merkel said one of the important topics was the refugees directing towards Turkey and the West.
"We had some evaluations over share of inconvenience on this topic. They underlined that we need to help Turkey in terms of the burden Turkey has undertaken.
We also laid importance on the need of working together against terror groups, and made some evaluations on 15th, 17th, 23rd, and 31st chapters [of EU entrance negotiations]."
"The need for political solution in Syria"
Photo: Hakan Göktepe, Berk Özkan/ AA, Mustafa Aktaş / Prime Ministry
The judicature has also issued arrest warrant for nine suspects.
Testimony of suspect guard
It has been learned that Y.Ş, who escorted the vehicle that drove Y.E.A. to Ankara who launched the suicide bomb attack and his brother, Şeyh Abdurrahman Alagöz that committed Suruç massacre, was among the detainees.In the investigation, it also has come out that the second suicide bomber entered Turkey from Syria two foreign nationals and explored the area with Y.Ş. by coming to Ankara in the day of the event.
It was learned that the two foreign nationals fleed before Y.Ş. was captured in Antep. Upon that, TEM teams raided ISIS cell houses. In the raids, large amount of materials used in bomb making, and TNTs ready to be detonated as well as hand bombs were seized.
Escort Y.Ş. said as follows in his testimony:
"I was standing guard for the vehicle that brought Y.E. and the one near him. We departed from Antep in the night of the incident. On the road Y.E. expressing me that it was a rally of sinful Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) supporters said, 'Our target is Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP), we will hit them.' I brought the bombers to Ankara for money but I wasn't paid. I escorted the perpetrators to the Gölbaşı district of Ankara, later they told me to return."
Six arrests, nine arrests in absence
Due to judicial control decision, international travel ban was imposed on the suspects in addition to stipulate them to sign in police center every day. (BK/TK)
Photo: Mehmet Ali Özcan / Ankara / AA
Firstly, we went to Sur district of Diyarbakır. It was blockaded by policemen.
The name of Helin Şen was being talked about. A person said “They killed someone while feeding pigeons.”
There were no campaign jingles nor colors of political parties’ flags.
There were sorrow and mourning.
HDP, AKP and CHP candidates tell
We talked to candidates from AKP, Republican People’s Party (CHP) and Peoples’ Democratic Party (HDP).
Our first destination was to deputy Naci Sapan from CHP. Sapan is also a journalist and he aims to increase the votes of CHP in Diyarbakır.
We finally talked to deputy İdris Baluken from HDP. Baluken stated the resolution process wouldn’t have continued if AKP had had 400 deputies in the parliament and the conflict environment would deepen.
People had supported HDP, but HDP started the clashes when they entered the parliament. Citizens complained “We are punished since we voted for them.”
People generally say the state is trying to actualize massacres in the region. They tell they were out of electricity and water and they had to eat their rotten foods since they couldn't go out due to the curfew.
Citizens think Erdoğan cannot solve the problems in Turkey and with neighbor countries.
Cizre people agree that Turkey will breathe a sigh of relief when CHP and HDP create a coalition and the peace process will continue. (EA/BD)
* This tour was coordinated by P24.
Click here to read the article in Turkish
Journalist Faraç announced his detention via his twitter account. He would have made a television program at Çukurova TV.
Click here to read the article in Turkish
It was claimed that “Elçi hid away and he couldn’t be found in spite of the efforts”.
Former Bar President Mehmet Emin Aktar was also taken to İstanbul along with Elçi.
“We are here in İstanbul with Bar President Tahir Elçi. He neither hid nor escaped. Their aim is not to investigate but to insult us. We won’t let this happen,” tweeted Aktar.
Police raided the bar association
Anti-terror branch team by an armored police vehicle along with riot policemen raided Diyarbakır Bar Association last night and submitted the court’s warrant issue to Elçi.
Upon the request of Prosecution
Bakırköy 2nd Criminal Court of Peace issued a warrant for Elçi’s arrest with allegations of “propagandizing terrorist organization”.
Seized while waiting for an invitation
Tahir Elçi stated that he learned from the media that an investigation had been launched against him and he was waiting at his office for the invitation to give his testimony. However, Elçi wasn’t invited although he had waited until the evening, according to him.
Union of Bars of Turkey: It’s against the law
Union of Bars of Turkey (TBB) made a written statement:
The exhibition does not only focus on schizophrenia, it also explains the methods used in diagnosing mental disorders from prehistory to modern-day, and approach of western and eastern societies in different eras by means of interesting visuals and animations.
In the cabins designed to develop empathy the voices that schizophrenics hear are being animated.
One of the treatment methods used 200 years ago "head spinning" experience is being exhibited at the swing bearing, which highly draws interest. Do not forget to read the warnings at entrance before trying those experiences.
What is trepanation?
Since it is believed that mental patients were possessed by evil spirits in ancient times, their skulls were drilled (trepanation). This practice that lasted unti the beginning of modern ages is deemed first operation. Most of the patients were losing their lives.
Gevher Nesibe Heal House
Units of scholars such as Ibni Sina, Biruni and Razi at Gevher Nesibe hatun (woman) Heal House, which opened in 1204 in Kayseri at Seljuqs period, were used in treatment of patients. In the 18-room section, patients were treated by means of sounds of water and music in cubbies. It was in service until 1890.
Trial and error in schizophrenia
It was Swiss Eugen Bieuler who firstly used the term schizophrenia in 1911. After this term, it was focused on treatment methods. However, as physiopathology of schizophrenia was not known, all treatment methods were based on trial and error system. Sleep treatment, lack of oxygen, and carbondioxide inhalation, etc.
Where does "tımarhane" (asylum) term come from?
Süleymaniye, which was the biggest hopital in Ottoman period and built in 16th centurey, was neglected in 1870s. Patients were being kep at the same place as horses, furthermore they were exhibited as circus animals.
So the term tımarhane comes from the word "tımar" where both mental patients and horses were being kept.
Italian doctor Luigi Mogeri Pere put an end to practice of enchaining mental patients in Süleymaniye Hospital as in European mental hospitals.
CLICK - NINE COMMON MISINFORMATION ON SCHIZOPHRENIA
Click to read the article in Turkish
WRONG
Schizophrenia patients must be hospitalized.
RIGHT
WRONG
Schizophrenia is entirely a hereditary disease.
RIGHT
WRONG
Schizophrenia patients are aggressive and dangerous.
RIGHT
WRONG
Intelligence level of schizophrenia patients is low.
RIGHT
WRONG
Schizophrenia begins suddenly.
RIGHT
WRONG
Schizophrenia is an incurable and non-healing disease.
RIGHT
Schizophrenia is a curable and healing disease. Indeed what is meant with such possibilities is not totally curing it. As in many other diseases, they can lead an independent and productive life with the help of regular drug therapy, and psycho-social treatments and rehabilitations.
RIGHT
Same symptoms are seen in all schizophrenia patients.
RIGHT
CLICK - JOURNEY TOWARDS HISTORY OF SCHIZOPHRENIA
Click here to read the article in Turkish
Course of the investigation
An explosion occurred on July 20 during the press statement of Socialists Youth before going Kobani, which left 33 dead and 76 injured in Turkey's southeastern Suruç district of Şanlıurfa province.
Objection against confidentiality order that is "examining file content of suspects and defenders or restricting the authorization to take samples from documents" was overruled.There hasn't been any progress in application of the platform to Constitutional Court on August 26.
In the report it is stated that the only ongoing procedure in the file is resorting to testimony of victim's relatives.
Prosecution mentioned that it intends to deepen the investigation but nothing has been done to support it so far, despite the ties of massacre perpetrator are solid, no protective measure has been implemented. (BZ/TK)
Click here to read the article in Turkish
“There are many examples where women are represented by only a woman. Business life, music, art and media…women rarely surpass men numerically.”
Elle UK, showed how representing women’s equality is bad with a video on its feminism-themed November issue.
The magazine omitted the males from the meeting and council photos or banners and drew attention to the females who constitute the half of the world’s population are represented by only one female member through a decision mechanism.
Elle UK editors said they wanted to change the existing situation that pushes women off and wanted to create an environment of dialogue.
Women don’t even constitute 20% of the parliaments
According to the report of World Economic Forum (WEF) Global Gender Gap Report 2014, women don’t even constitute 20% of the parliaments in all over the world.
Turkey is on the 98th rank among 142 countries within the field of gender equality in parliament. Women constitute 17.6% of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey (TBMM) in 25th Term of Parliament. It was 14.3% last year.
UN never had a female secretary-general
United Nations is 70 years old and the new secretary-general will be elected in 2016. 8 people have been elected to this position until now from Ghana, Norway, Peru, Egypt, Myanmar and Korea… All of them were males.
Organizations like Amnesty International, CIVICUS, Equality Now, Social Watch, Women's International League for Peace and Freedom and Avaaz, started a campaign “1 For 7 Billion: Find The Best UN Leader”.
Males discuss on the TV
Male participants on the TV don’t pertain to Turkey. In TV shows, women rarely participate or they seldom host and if she is the only guest at the show, she isn’t allowed to talk much.
Male armies
Only 1343 female officers work at Turkish Armed Forces (TSK) when compared the total number: 39,449. Female sergeants constitute 3% of the total number and it means four per thousand. There are no female generals on the contrary to the former Minister of National Defense, İsmet Yılmaz: “There isn’t a regulation preventing females from being generals/admirals.”
Female generals constitute 7% of the American army while the number is 16.6% when it comes to female officers.
Females go out of sight in the film industry
According to an international study 31% of speaking roles in popular movies are occupied by females, 23% of films feature a female protagonist.
Only four women were nominated for Oscar as the best director, one of them was awarded. (ÇT/BD)
* Çiçek Tahaoğlu compiled this news for bianet.
Elçi on the way out of courthouse said, "What happened here has shown how difficult to discuss this matter in a healthy way" in his statement to bianet.
"Official discourse is still a taboo"
Elçi said, "We see that certain words are still a taboo, and statements conflicting official discourse cause disturbance and reaction in jurisdiction and government.
Today we saw how jurisdiction approaches freedom of speech. When we don't speak within the limits drawn by government and a specific political party, you face arrest warrants and investigations.
CLICK - Diyarbakır Bar President Released
Detention at his post with the allegation of "couldn't be found"
Bakırköy Chief Public Prosecutor's Office has started a probe into Elçi's words "Even though some acts have the feature of terrorism, PKK is an armed political movement. A political movement that has political demands and a serious support behind it" said on TV channel CNN Türk on October 14.
Even though it is claimed in the warrant that "he couldn't be found despite all efforts," Elçi was detained in his post.
Support to Elçi from rights organizations
Human rights organizations and associations too reacted against the detainment of lawyer Elçi.
Human Rights Association (İHD), reminding that though Elçi waited all night in bar building to be invited for testimony, he was raided by police this morning to be taken to İstanbul by plane:"Accusing Elçi of 'not defining PKK as a terror group' and forcing him to say 'PKK is a terror group' is a violation of Article 18 of Universal Declaration of Human Rights."
Human Rights Joint Platform (İHOP) "This practice against Diyarbakır Bar President Tahir Elçi just for expressing his thoughts is a serious violation of human rights, and freedom of expression and conscience."
* 18 co-mayors from Democratic Regions Party (DBP) have been arrested;
* A co-mayor was unseated and has been put under house arrest,
* Two provincial council speakers have been arrested;
* Four co-mayors weren’t arrested but have been unseated.
Union of Democratic Local Governments Co-Chair Çimen Işık, indicates all the cases were given confidentiality order.
18% of DBP co-mayors are being investigated
Dismissals and arrestments continue in 18 municipalities. Four arrested co-mayors of 19, are from provincial municipalities while 15 of them are from district municipalities.
10 female co-mayors and 9 male co-mayors were arrested. Women were sent to Sincan Prison, Ankara while males were sent to Kırıkkale Prison.
Işık expressed:
“They want to preclude co-mayors by keeping them near from being embraced by citizens. They also punish the mayors by keeping them away from their relatives.
“Co-chairmanship was accepted after the arrestments”
Işık:
“It is very striking that they seemed to accept the co-chairmanship once they wanted to arrest us. They didn’t acknowledge it before."
Justification: Self-governance and human shield protests
There are two justifications for the arrestments: participating in human shield protests and declaring self-governance.
12 co-mayors will be put on trial according to Article 302 of Turkish Penal Code (TCK), it states “A person who publicly denigrates the Turkish Nation, the State of the Turkish Republic or the Grand Assembly of Turkey and the judicial institutions of the State shall be punishable by imprisonment from 6 months to 2 years.”
Click here to read the article in Turkish
We started to learn veganism after vegetarianism. The worry that vegans could die due to lack of protein seems to decrease to some extent; questions like "don't you even eat honey?" are heard less often.
Even shampoos that are produced without abusing animals can be found now. Consumption has gotten easier to some extent for vegans.
For instance, it's not possible to support concentration camps built to "clean up" the streets from animals, we are of the same opinion here. Still, aside from the struggle to extinguish those buildings, we might find ourselves considering medical condition of the animals, monitoring the conditions of the camps, doing the best within given circumstances.
I believe veganism means something different than eating vegan lahmacun (Turkish pizza), wearing leather-like shoes which are not made of leather, washing our hands with abuse-free soaps. That is why veganism should be seen as a political mindset rather than a consumption habit.
Foods and drinks
I guess this is the most ambivalent matter. If we predicate on İstanbul, there are three places, two of them are in Yeldeğirmeni and one in Tophane, whose every products are vegan.
The reason why this matter is so tricky is that it is possible to find vegan options in kebab shops too; what is worse is that vegan nutrition is becoming a new market. The most concrete example is the establishments in Kadıköy. The establishments, which discovered the vegan population that are employed, have to spend their time outside or cannot find time to cook home, have added one or two vegan options on their menu -I believe more expensive than they should-. When vegans eat outside, they have to sit at restaurants where people eat animal next to their tables.
On one hand this situation is important in terms of the word "vegan" being heard. While we keep in mind that it is an encouragement for more people to sustain their lives without abusing animals, it should also be noted that veganism faces the danger of being exploited for more profit. For this reason, the vegan options, which are put on menu by establishments with the approach "they will eat it anyway", should be the last choices. You may find the places selling vegan food via Happycow.
Dr. Colin Campbell, who makes research focusing on health side of vegan nutrition, is a useful figure for people who seek scientific base on this subject. People interested in the subject may benefit from his influential book "The China Study".
Clothing
I find it surprising to see prominent sensitivities when it comes to talk about clothes. I would like to exemplify it via magazine: In a season of a style competition lasting for four months on TV, a competitor named Sinem had cried upon seeing a fur on some other competitor. After that, "fur sensitivity" become prominent. Upon heavy criticisms from competitors and jury members, it was decided to not wear "real" fur on podium.
Following these incidents, in the show praise on "real" fur and silk continued, and suggestions to wear woolly jumper took place.
Even though it is possible to avoid human abuse by staying away from leather, wool, silk or feather, the situation is a bit different for shoes. Even if you don't wear a leather shoe, in the glue of the material it is possible to find animal product. In this subject, guide website is Vegankicks.
What to do regarding vegan clothing is in fact quite easy: checking the tag. Those produced by cotton, linen, polyester, polyamide, acrylic, polyurethane are vegan. They are sold in much more affordable prices tha leather, fur, wool, silk made ones. A personal advise: if you prefer shopping at Beyoğlu İş Hanı or Terkos Pasajı, there is a higher chance to find vegan products.
Personal care and cosmetics
What should be reminded is that a product's final phase not tested on animals may not mean it is "cruelty free". It is hard to be sure if any raw material used in the product was tested on animals or not despite the laws prohibiting to test the last phase of the product. Because a company might be working with a lot of raw materials while producing it. Besides, even if a company ensures it, there are some laws in countries such as China that necessitate animal testing.
Certificates and logos are important but they might be misleading as well. Most trustworthy certificates and logos are Buav, PETA and CCF.
Cleaning products
You may have difficulty in making a cleaning product by yourself but when the matter is hygiene, you may make them home with regard to your health though you are not a vegan.
Other than things aforementioned, avoiding circuses, dolphin parks, and pet shops should be kept in mind too.
Veganism is not a matter of neither a diet nor about liking animals. This movement is about defending liberties.
Liberty means the same for all, go vegan! (AE/NV/TK)
Note: This list was prepared completely with my limited knowledge, for your corrections and suggestions:[email protected]
bianet talked to Education and Science Workers' Union (Eğitim-Sen) President Yıldırım Kaya who was the witness to the incidents.
Kaya told the attacks couldn’t create “fear and intimidation” and the burnt down buildings will being rebuilt by collaboration of the citizens.
“Leftist, socialist, revolutionist, and democrat people from Kırşehir and outside Kırşehir supported and welcomed Kırşehir citizens who transformed the seeds of loathe and rage into the seeds of love.
“Kırşehir is a democracy veteran”
* Photo: Gül Bookstore, one of the damaged buildings / Twitter
“People are visiting the attacked and burnt buildings and stores. Attacks in the city couldn’t create fear and intimidation.
“Kırşehir province is a democracy veteran. The city will rise from the ashes. These attacks cannot destroy the fellowship of Kurds and Turks.
"HDP’s election rally was attacked by the same perpetrators”
Kaya reminded a similar incident took place in HDP’s election rally led by Co-Chair Selahattin Demirtaş before the general elections which was held on June 7.
“HDP candidates were becoming close with the citizens and it made some people nervous. Deputies of Justice and Development Party (AKP) decrease to 1 from 2. It was the main reason behind the attacks in Kırşehir.
Security gap
Kaya indicated the security forces didn’t take precautions and the perpetrators aimed to set Kurds against Turks and the report of CHP also indicates the security gaps of the security units.
“Reactions will be reflected on the votes”
Kaya said the incident looked like Madımak and it was very dangerous and he thought AKP and Nationalist Movement Party (MHP) would lose votes while the votes of CHP and HDP would increase. (BK/BD)
Click here to read the article in Turkish
Banners and cookies
Freedom of expression
Greenpeace Lawyer Deniz Bayram told the plans of nuclear power plants in Turkey should be judged not the peaceful protests.
“The actions of anti-nuclear activists are in the scope of freedom of expression and the right to assembly and demonstration.
“Peaceful protests and the people have objected dangerous nuclear plants which had been planned to be built for 50 years in Turkey.
It is against the law
Bayram stated three regions; Akkuyu, Sinop and İğneada were determined as nuclear plant areas and the procedure for Akkuyu was not transparent, not participative and it is against the law.
“Environmental Impact Assessment (ÇED) was acknowledged in spite of all its faults. The case of ÇED still continues since there are a lot of troubles for example; dangers against the living species in the Mediterranean Sea, security risks, environmental, social, economic and legal responsibilities.
What should be judged is…
“What should be judged and investigated is insisting on dangerous, dirty and expensive nuclear energy plans instead of unused renewable energy.” (YY/BD)
"That means there will be a bloodshed in this country in case you are gone. That's true, there were White Toroses, now you have luxury cars, good for you. You are kidnapping with more high-quality cars and torture.
"Yes, when you are gone, we will get rid of White Toroses, Rangers you drive now, and ISIS (Islamic State of Iraq and Syria). The country will breathe a sigh of relief.
"We are the only political power to solve Kurdish question and have PKK (Kurdistan Workers' Party) lay down its arms.
"They threaten us saying JITEM will come if we leave. All these are both confession and threat."
Demirtaş: "They must have lost their conscience"
Demirtaş has gone on with his remarks on the White Toros polemics in "solidary breakfast" at Okmeydanı in İstanbul.
You may remember; it was said that F-Type Prisons meant primarily liberalization of the prison system. Almost all of the services in F-Type Prisons except “primary services” are provided for a consideration, for a long time.
Although no companies in Turkey start to work from the basic structure, entrepreneurs stop at nothing. For example, Ministry of Health made a tender for building physical therapy, psychiatry and high security forensic psychiatric hospitals in seven provinces of Turkey. These hospitals will function with a build-operate-transfer model.
Decision for imposition of security precautions is given by the court about a person suffering from mental illness at the time of commission of the offense. The insane people subject to security precautions under the court’s decision are sheltered and taken under protection for treatment purposes in the fully organized health institutions.
Nowadays, even commenting on social media means “commission of the offense” let alone, marching, protests and etc. When people “commit the offenses” and they are determined “insane”, they will be kept in these institutions as “precautions” until there is no risk to the community, or the risk is considerably diminished.
Ministry of Health promised 90% occupancy rate and it should keep its word, shouldn’t it? It can’t waste the public money, after all.
So, any action will be risky, the actor will be examined, labeled as insane and will be put in a high-security institution until there is no risk.
According to BusinessHT, in KONDA survey vote rate of the Justice and Development Party (AKP) is 40.9, the Republican People's Party (CHP) is 30.4, the National Movement Party (MHP) is 14.3, the Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) is 11.8.
Results of the other companies' is as follows:
According to Anadolu Agency, the names of suspects are H.İ.D, Y.D, H.H.U, B.O, M.A, M.K.C, D.B and H.A.D.
Public Prosecutor of Ankara identified Y.Ş who brought suicide bomber to Ankara by car.
Y.Ş stated Ebu Ali code-named Y.D gave the orders for the bombing.
Police Department was warned
ISIS militants had been trained in a camp in Syria and the militants may hijack or blast bomb in a crowded meeting according to Police Department’s “confidential” document, and the officials were warned.
According to Cumhuriyet daily, the vehicles carrying bomb and suicide bombers were stopped by policemen but then released before the massacre.
It wasn’t stated clearly by Cumhuriyet, whether police officers checked the drivers’ identity cards or just checked the inside of the car.
"Discrimination against Alewis continued"
* Following detections were included in the report as to the discrimination against Alewis.
* While many public buildings including universities have prayer rooms, government continued to reject Alewis' right to build similar praying rooms in public buildings, besides public buildings didn't involve praying areas for non-Muslims.
* The government continued to see Alawism as a sect against Islam.
* Alewis were able to build new djemevis, however the government has turned down their request for the djemevis to be considered sanctuary.
Discrimination in education
* Alewis stated that the government hasn't included Alewi doctrine and beliefs in mandatory religious courses curriculum, and despite European Court of Human Rights judgement in 2007, the government insistently refuses the right of Alewis to be exempt from these courses.
* Alewi leaders informed that teachers sometimes physically maltreat students who try to be exempt from the courses or cause the students to be maltreated by other students.
* The government persisted to discriminate against Alewi Muslims by refusing to dispense their children from the Sunni Islam curriculum or by refusing to recognize their praying halls as sanctuary.
Hate speech against Jews
In the reports increase in anti-semite speeches was emphasized and attention was drawn to hate speech against Jews.
* Elected authorities have made anti-semite statements. For instance, on July 19, then Prime Minister Erdoğan said 'Those who damn Hitler day and night have exceeded his doings'."
* In the same period, the increase in protests on social media, violence against Israeli diplomatic entities and violence threats against Jews in the country were mentioned as well in the report.
Halki Seminary couldn't be opened
Outline of other issues voiced in the report is as follows:
* There hasn't been any progress in openin Halki Seminary.
* Even though lands of Assyrian Orthodoxes were returned, land use of other religious groups was inhibited and providing fund to Sunni mosques has continued.
* The government went on with prosecuting individuals who don't explicitly show respct to Islam despite the legal penalties have been delayed.
* A Catholic congregation in İstanbul was threatened and its churc was attacked by Sunni radicals.
* A Ja'fari imam was threatened in İstanbul and the mosque where he prayed was attacked and burned.
In the report, the pressure imposed by Al Qaeda affiliated groups, such as Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS) and Al Nusra Front on people's religious freedoms at the global level was mentioned. (YY/TK)
Click here to read the article in Turkish
PM’s letter mentions about “the importance Justice and Development Party (AKP) gave to strengthen the cooperation with non-governmental organizations” and the actions performed by AKP since 2002.
President of Red Umbrella Organization, Kemal Ördek, verbalized Republican People’s Party (CHP) and Peoples’ Democratic Party (HDP) communicated with him before but he received a letter from AKP for the first time:
“I think, Prime Minister sent a single letter with the same format and same content to all non-governmental organizations in Turkey. This letter can seem elegant, but a 13-year-old government which hasn’t cared about the human rights of sex workers and LGBTI people in Turkey wasn’t elegant, at all. We know it. Before the elections, similar letters come from different political parties and organizations, already. The important thing is paying attention to receivers ‘politically’ and actualizing the thing written on that letter.
According to Article 15 of the Constitution of the Turkish Republic fundamental rights and freedoms can only be suspended in cases of war and state of emergency provided that international law obligations of Turkey are not violated and such suspension is proportionate to the exigencies of the specific situation. Whilst the executive branch has taken a number of measures that can only be taken in a state of emergency, there currently exists no constitutional state of emergency in Turkey.
Human rights law imposes state authorities legal obligations to respect the right to life and physical integrity of individuals beyond and above any political objective. Security forces have a duty and a right to use force when carrying out capture and arrest operations against armed groups provided that such use of force is proportionate in the light of the facts of each and every concrete situation and the use of force is employed with the purpose of self-defense, defense of other security forces or defense of the civilian population. This duty and right must be exercised in accordance with human rights law at all times:
Counter terrorism operations against armed groups must never be planned in ways that risk the lives of the civilian population;
Security forces must not use weapons that do not discriminate civilian populations from the members of armed groups;
Those who are captured, charged and detained have the right to physical bodily integrity. They shall not be subject to torture, inhuman or degrading treatment;
All forms of inhuman or degrading treatment to dead bodies is unlawful.
All organs of the Turkish Republic further have obligations to effectively investigate all killings, and torture, inhuman or degrading treatment allegations, regardless of the identity of perpetrators:
State authorities must investigate effectively all deaths or suspected deaths of individuals, be they deaths of members of security forces, civilians or members of armed groups, and must ensure that all identified perpetrators are brought to justice;
Deaths must be carried out in accordance with the United Nations Manual on the Effective Prevention and Investigation of Extra-Legal, Arbitrary and Summary Executions (Minnesota Protocol). Investigations of allegations of torture, inhuman or degrading treatment must be carried out in accordance with the United Nations The Manual on Effective Investigation and Documentation of Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment (Istanbul Protocol);
All public officials who have committed or suspected to have committed crimes must face administrative alongside criminal investigations and must be removed from duty for the duration of the investigation;
All investigations, whilst observing the standard of fairness, must also respect the rights of next of kin of the deceased and the right to truth of the public, and must be concluded speedily and effectively.
As human rights lawyers, we regard it as our historic responsibility to remind our shared humane, ethical and legal responsibilities and call on the state authorities to take all necessary measures to respect human rights in the context of ongoing operations. (BK/TK)
Respectfully yours,
İdil Seda Ak, Gizem Tanay Aksaç, and Arzu Şenyurt Akdağ prepared this report in consideration of knowledge acquisition applications, media browsing, parliamentary questions and violation notice forms.
Rapora göre, şiddete uğrayan engelli kadınlar başvuru yapamıyor, sığınma evlerinde yoklar, milletvekillerinin soru önergelerinde bile onlara yer yok.
Violence rate against handicapped women is very high in institutions such as nursery, rest home, rehabilitation centers. Violence perpetrators are usually staff of the institution.
While pension pledge stands early in the list, minimum wage and unemployment followed it. Political parties in terms of their reflection on media are alined as AKP, CHP, HDP, and MHP.
Pledges on media
* According to the survey, pension and raise in wages stands at top of the list.
* Pension stands early in the list with 1,704 news.
* Minimum wage follows pension with 1,487 news.
* Unemployment is ranked 3rd with 868 news.
* Economic Growth is ranked 4th with 800 news
* Pledges of parties as to the disabled people take 5th place with 417 news
* Inflation comes 6th with 389 news
* While the subjects drawing attention under the Women's Rights category are woman labor, maternity leave, violence against women, these news take 7th place with 320 news
* Education pledges are ranked 8th with 141 news
* Steps to be taken regarding animals takes 9th place with 136 news.
AKP comes to the fore on news
Media reflections of political parties were also included in the survey.
Charges were placed against 31 people by İznik Criminal Court of First Instance for opposition to the law on meetings and demonstrations, for damaging to property and for resisting not to allow fulfilling the duty.
On September 7, 2013, a person named Zeki Dursun lost his life due to a right-of-way fight in İznik. Romani father and son N.D and M.D. were arrested.
A bevy of people and Dursun’s relatives attacked Roma people’s quarters and vandalized their apartments and workplaces. On the following day, the clashes between Roma people and attackers continued.
Deceased Dursun’s uncle, former İznik Mayor Zeynel Abidin Turan intervened in and the incidents calmed down.
According to the bill of indictment, 2 vehicles, 7 workplaces, 4 apartments and 3 mobile toast stands of Roma people were damaged.
“They should be sued for incitement to animosity and hostility”
Trial lawyer Hilal Çelik talked to bianet that Ankara Roma People’s Rights Association requested the instigators should be sued for incitement to animosity and hostility.
Çelik added they would lodge an appeal with the Supreme Court.
“They may lynch Roma people again”
Ankara Roma People’s Rights Association President Yücel Tutal:
“We are deeply sorry and shocked since it is worrying that none of the perpetrators were arrested even though thousands of people attempted lynching Roma people and there were camera records of the incidents.
The dead body of Doğan was taken to Forensic Medicine Institute.
On October 18, Dilek Doğan had been shot during a police operation and then was taken to the hospital.
On October 23, the investigation was issued “confidentiality order”.
İstanbul Police Department made a statement 32 hours after the incident and blamed the Doğan Family for making an uproar while Dilek’s family told the police opened fire against her. (HK/BD)
Click here to read the article in Turkish
On the same day, jiyan.org was blocked to access by TİB. (NV/BD)
Seçkin, after 121 weeks of then Prime Minister voiced the incident expresses the following statements in his article titled "The journalist who understands Kabataş harassment through eyes!"
"...It was May...The year of 2013...Location is Taksim Square...Youngsters dance the halay at Gezi Park as police leave Beyoğlu...Indeed we later learn that these youngsters were of pro-coup mindset and at least 70 of them wore leather gloves!..I was an editor in the days when the 'pro-coup' youngsters kick up a dust.
"Justice and Development Party (AK Party) therefore commences an attack upon this huge protest shaking the government. Then Prime Minister Erdoğan deals the deadly blow to 'looters'*: 'Bride of a relative of mine...was harassed by Gezi protesteters at Kabataş...Kerchiefed...' Media hearing Erdoğan starts looking for the bride Erdoğan mentions...
"...'Journalist' Elif enters the 'interview' she made with 'victim' bride [Mayor of İstanbul Bahçelievler district's bride]. Editor of the page cannot hide his astonishment...He is asking a few questions to Çakır who comes to editorial office with the enthusiasm and proud of making such a grand news. The first question: Were all those told by this woman?..Elif's response: She was psychologically broken-down...She was in no state to talk. What could she tell? However, I understood what she meant!!!" (EA/TK)
* Then PM Recep Tayyip Erdoğan had called the protesters "looters" and accused them of attempting a coup d'etat.
According to news by Mesut Hasan Benli from Hürriyet daily, the Chamber has ruled in its decision taken by a majority vote that Say's sharings should be interpreted as part of the freedom of thought and freedom of expression.
Tweets subjected to the trial
"Muezzin recited the evening adhan in 22 seconds. Prestissimmo con fuco! Why are you in a rush? A lover? Raki table?"
"Is god something that you will die for or kill for by becoming an animal? Think about it."
Say's testimonies
Say had denied the accusation in his testimony that he gave to Prosecutor Erhan Gülcan on May 15, 2012 by asserting even though he was the one who tweeted those, they were mostly citations.
"I have no intent to insult, or degrade in anything I wrote or stated on Twitter", said Say at the first trial heard on October 18, 2012.
Reactions from then government
Then Vice Prime Minister Bekir Bozdağ upon the judgment said, "We don't desire anyone to be punished for expressing their thoughts but no one has the right to insult, swear others or degrade their beliefs.
"Fazıl say hasn't been punished for playing piano. He has been punished because his words were insult and contempt on the values which have been accepted by the considerable part of the society."
Then Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdoğan had given a short answer to the question directed by journalists after Justice and Development Party (AKP) Group Meeting, "Don't take up my time with these." (BK/TK)
Click here to read the article in Turkish
Little living room of our home in İstanbul was like a movie theater for me during my sleepless nights. I was waiting for the sleep to come in front of TV with worries that the world will come to its end unless I fall asleep, well it’s equivalent to the stairway to heaven back then. When I entered the living room, my dad was smiling and I sat on brown, beige-striped, wooden armchair. Let the sleep come!
I am writing this page while I am lying on my armchair in front of my old friend: TV. Contrary to as usual, I don’t wait for the sleep to come. My cat, Pıtır, is ill and I should follow it not to vomit its medication until morning.
I’m lucky since there is a guy that makes me awake till morning: Pedro Almodovar. Directors of the movies that never make me asleep. One and only, dear Spanish Almodovar. My dear Almodovar that has many awards; has written and directed many magnificent movies…even there are meals which were named after him.
Best-loved, great Spanish director Almodovar after Luis Buñuel… His movie characters include very vigorous women, transsexuals, transvestites, rapists, hit men but you never see their crimes and regrets but their humanities, frailties and hopes through the silver screen. So, we can have empathy and love them or don’t love them.
“Labyrinth of Passion” of 1982 was the first Almodovar movie that I had ever seen. The second half of 1990s; those were the days that I baby stepped from adolescence to adulthood. It was the “favorite” movie of a friend’s beloved sister who learnt psychology in Boğaziçi University.
It would surely be our favorite film, too. The movie was about a nymphomaniac named Sexilia, gay Islamist “terrorist” Sadec, the son of the emperor of Tiran, Riza and dry cleaner’s daughter Queti, it was like a Renaissance! Guys having sex, sex-addict women, cross-gender elder men, escapes and guns…. I learnt that day the director was the guy who dressed like a woman and applied a dark make-up. And I believed in Spanish movie and Almodovar very that day.
I have watched “Matador”, “Woman on the Verge of a Nervous Breakdown” (1988), “High Heels” (1991), “The Flower of My Secret” (1995), “All About My Mother” (1999), “Talk to Her” (2002), “Bad Education” (2004), “Volver” (2006), “Broken Embraces” (2009), “The Skin I Live In” (2012) and many more…
I liked “Talk to Her” and “All About My Mother” most. My jaw fell to the ground with “The Skin I Live In”. I cried with “Bad Education” since my beloved director was telling his childhood.
I will watch “All About My Mother” tonight; God knows how many times I’ve watched it. Echoes from Federico García Lorca* to women, men, love, friendship and compassion. That film makes me say “Each woman is a mother, a player, a saint and a sinner inside and each man has a feminine side.”
I will never sleep tonight.
The film will be over, Pıtır the cat will be healed, Antonio Carlos Brasileiro de Almeida Jobim** will be played, we will be hurt and then recover, TV will always be on and there will be no sleep tonight…
Good morning. (GP/HK/BD)
According to the news on state-run Anadolu news Agency, an operation was launched by Diyarbakır District Police Department teams against a house where ISIS members stayed.
Two police died and four others wounded in the conflict as a consequence of the bomb planted by ISIS members exploding.
Wounded police officers have been taken to Dicle University Medical Faculty for treatment.
Public Prosecutor of Bakırköy/İstanbul prepared the indictment and sent it to Bakırköy 2nd High Criminal Court. The deadline for the indictment to be accepted or rejected ends in 15 days. When it is accepted, Elçi will be put on trial.
Legitimacy discussions over the indictment
The indictment includes views: “There is always a legal and legitimate way to gain the rights. That’s why, resorting to violence is not legitimate. Elçi should know what crime is and what is not as a legal expert. He should have known the consequences as a member of a social institution.
Objection to international travel ban
One of the Elçi’s lawyers, Baran Doğan, objected to the international travel ban imposed on Tahir Elçi by Bakırköy 1st Criminal Court of Peace.
Lawyer Doğan requested the travel ban to be lifted because his client will participate in a conference of European Council titled “Freedom of Expression and Media in Turkey and Western Balkans" in Brussels on November 3.
What happened?
Public Prosecutor of Bakırköy had launched an investigation against Tahir Elçi when he remarked:
“PKK is an armed political movement even though some of its actions have the characteristics of terrorism. It is a political movement which has been greatly supported and has political demands.”
"I wrote at the first opportunity"
Why did you feel the need to write this after all this time?
Some facts are talked about 10 or 15 years later. I was working for Star that period and had no channel to share it.
Then who was it?
The editor in charge of that page or any administrators of the newspaper could have done that.
CLICK - "KABATAŞ INCIDENT WAS A FICTION", SAYS FORMER STAR EDITOR
"Some others too at the newspaper knew it"
When this happened, did some others talk or hear about it? Or it was only you?
I knew that some people other than me knew it. I don't know in what manner people talked about this because I was banished from politics department. I heard of something about a discussion but don't have a solid information.
Army called for duty on February 28, now prosecutors are being called for duty
Elif Çakır had some statements via Twitter. She says she spoke to Zehra Devecioğlu and calls prosecutors for duty upon your allegations. What do you think about that?
"There was footage too! If there is any sound recording, may she immediately hand it to prosecutor"
Elif Çakır says she has the sound recording of the interview...
This all started with the footage said to "cause indignation". Is there a sound recording? May she immediately hand it to prosecutor.
Moreover, she may feature sound recording if she wishes to do so. I have nothing to apologize for. I simply voiced a dialogue between Elif Çakır and the editor on my column.
A journalism understanding in which right to speak ends..."
When and why did you leave Star?
It has been five months. I wanted to do something different.
Click here to read the article in Turkish
Bayülken stated the placards weren’t violent and the subject should be evaluated within the context of freedom of expression. The lawyer reminded in a football match between Fenerbahçe and Galatasaray Sports Clubs, Fenerbahçe supporters set fire a Galatasaray uniform worn sex doll and added the aim of the law was to stop these kinds of gendered and discriminative actions, but it was being exploited to silence the opponents.
“The law doesn’t include placards”
“When you look atthat law and its regulations which prevent violence in sports, it doesn’t include placards in any way.
"Police Chief of the District and the governorship have the authority to use initiative regarding the placards.
“It means blacklisting”
“Investigation these three persons, imposing administrative fines on them and maybe preventing them from going to football matches mean blacklisting, I suppose.
“It was a totally gendered, discriminative action but they won’t launch any investigation about it. I don’t think so.
“Even though the law targets to forestall these incidents, it is being used to shut opponents up.”
Before the Internet Forum organized 4th time by Swedish International Development Cooperation Agency (SIDA), participants gathering from the Middle East and North Africa discussed the national and regional obstacles before access to Internet on the ground of language and gender in the first preliminary meeting held on October 19-20.
In the second day which consists of five atelier sessions, strengthening education structures for women, purchasing power, status of informatics companies and international democratic society groups in terms of their capacity to have an effect on decision mechanisms regarding content accessed and regulating Internet traffic in different countries. In the atelier titled "Gendered Access Around the World", gender asymmetry on Internet was conveyed via human stories compiled in cooperation with NewZambian, Asikana Network, GRACE Network, WOUGNET and Sweden Lusaka Embassy.
Opening speeches were made by SIDA General Director Charlotte Petri Gornitzka and Swedish Foreign Ministry Development Cooperation Responsible Ulrika Modéer. In the first day of the forum, it was emphasized in various sessions that it would be a narrow-minded approach to reduce all issues regarding Internet to accessibility as in reducing accessibility issue to woman using cell phone. It was stated that competition capacity is the most important factor of Internet access in global digital economy.
Jellema: Internet revolution yet to be completed
World Wide Web Foundation (WWWF) Chair of the Board, Anne Jellema, speaking a the session titled "All the Internet All of the Time" noting that Internet access costs vary dramatically on global level, expressed that limitations that emerge in sub-structure, purchasing power and different social/cultural contexts should be monitored with a multi-dimensional approach:
"Printing press revolution had decreased average price of a book by 300 times, and ensured information be spread faster and and cheaper than ever before. Industrial Revolution had occurred by means of a similar revolution. However, I don't think Internet revolution is yet to be completed. Today in Japan ultra fast Internet, access to unlimited Internet is less than 1 percent of income per capita whereas in Mozambique 6 mb Internet and access to limited Internet is more than half of income per capita."
Solomon: Cross borders cooperation is necessary
In the session in which Wojtek Bogusz (Frontline Defenders), Brett Solomon (Access Now), Marcin de Kaminski (SIDA), Sanne Stevens (Hivos People Unlimited) and Ali Karimzadeh Bangi (ASL19) took part as debaters, Internet security issue of human rights defenders was tackled and monitoring Internet activities of rights defenders and drawn attention to increase in online attacks against civil society. Solomon highlighted the importance of cross borders information and experience sharing: "Now the issues of what kind of Internet the 4 billion people, who don't have access to Internet, will enter depends on whether the cooperation of positive actors in states and tech. companies will produce results. A militarized Internet with a wide-spread censor and constant surveillance, or an Internet with open code, safe and free?"
In the last day of the conference, Dr. Maja Fjaestad (Swedish Ministry of Strategic Development and Northern Countries Cooperation), Nighat Dad (Digital Rights Foundation), Jan Moolman (Project Coordinator of Women's Rights Program-Association for Progressive Communications), Liza Garcia (Foundation for Media) discussed sexist violence on Internet.
Speakers stated that online violence and threats by intertwining with each other dramatically affect the contribution of women/girls/LGBTI individuals in forming online content and public visibility. It was also stated that not only victims but also police and courts are ill-informed about what to do as to the sexist violence exposed on Internet, and especially feminist organizations should be more active in this area and mobilize information networks.
Click here to read the article in Turkish
Petition for request
Accusations
Reactions against the appointment of trustee
Cumhuriyet daily CEO:
This publication has been produced within the partnership with Osservatorio Balcani e Caucaso for the European Centre for Press and Media Freedom (ECPMF), co-funded by the European Commission. The contents of this publication are the sole responsibility of IPS Communication Foundation and can in no way be taken to reflect the views of the European Union.
The injustice had been criticized before
TRT General Director Şenol Göka explained in 2014 that TRT News broadcasted PM Ahmet Davutoğlu for 135 hours while it gave place to CHP, MHP and HDP for 39 hours in total. (EA/BD)
According to Uygar Gültekin's news from Agos weekly, the foundation's lawyer Seba Aslangil has expressed that the procedures at land registry office have been completed.
// <![CDATA[
(function(d, s, id) { var js, fjs = d.getElementsByTagName(s)[0]; if (d.getElementById(id)) return; js = d.createElement(s); js.id = id; js.src = "//connect.facebook.net/en_GB/sdk.js#xfbml=1&version=v2.3"; fjs.parentNode.insertBefore(js, fjs);}(document, 'script', 'facebook-jssdk'));
// ]]>
Kamp Armen Ermeni Halkına İade Edildi! Nor Zartonk
Camp Armen in Tuzla, once hosted orphan Armenian children, started the day with a demolishment attempt on May 6.
Even though volunteers who rushed into Camp Armen upon hearing the demolishment managed to halt the destruction, some parts of the building were demolished.
ECHR ruled that Turkey violated Mehmet Polat's right to live and fined Turkey to pay 64,000 euros as solatium in addition to 6,000 euros of court costs.
Death resulted by battering in detention
Human Rights Association had written up a report by meeting with eyewitnesses and officials. In the conclusion chapter of the report, it was stated that Mehmet Özpolat was killed by battering:
"Mehmet Özpolat, according to testimonies of eyewitnesses, was detained by being battered on the house's roof by security forces. It was understood by the report received from Dicle University Medical Faculty Research Hospital dated July 16, 2007 that 17-year-old Özpolat lost his life due to the blows he received."
One died home, the other died in detention
Police took Mehmet Özpolat under custody in the operation launched on July 13, 2007 in Diyarbakır. Detained Mehmet Özpolat was taken to hospital with the complaint of tummy ache, and died due to neck bleeding in the hospital a day later.
İskender Özpolat who allegedly fired back at police during the police operation was killed at the scene of incident. Diyarbakır Chief Public Prosecutor's Office ruled killing of Özpolat was self-defense, and the case concluded with verdict of non-prosecution.
ECHR in its verdict ruled that there is no violation in İskender Özpolat case. It also added that not making an effective investigation was also a violation.
Click here to read the article in Turkish
Güç: Government seeks to form its own media
"This ruling is not legal. Earlier channels belong to [Gülen] congregation were removed from Digitür and Türksat. Now the government assigns its own administrators to bring those broadcats under its total control."
Eren: Opposition voices blocked prior to elections
TGC: Government's effort of intimidation
"This is the first time we see trustee appointed to a media outlet. Those are government's efforts to intimidate and exhaust [opposition] right before the elections. However, media's resisting wing will stand up to this. It will defend freedom of the press, people's freedom of information up to the end. Media must be in solidarity. No matter how much damage this government deals, it will be gone in time, but journalism will. Free, honest, independent journalists will live."
İGC: Our most basic human rights are under duress
"Appointing trustee to companies included in İpek Koza Holding is a rape to 'national will' which some constantly talk about. Democracy, liberty of the press and freedom of expression, people's property right have been raped.
CLICK - POLICE BREAK INTO İPEK MEDIA
Police battered and detained Bugün daily reporter Kamil Maman.
CLICK - REACTIONS BY JOURNALIST ORGANIZATIONS AGAINST "TRUSTEE" RULING
İHD added that election safety must be provided by responding positively to KCK's decision of unilateral inaction.
Decision of inaction
Perpetual non-conflict
"As human rights defenders, we would like to emphasize that democratic and peaceful resolution in Kurdish question that is one of the most important issues of Turkey and even the Middle East is inevitable. In order to realize it, the sides must establish perpetual non-conflict.
"For this reason, we would like to note that the governorship must respond positively to KCK's decision of unilateral inaction".
Election and ballot box safety
"Election and ballot box safety issue persists as November 1, 2015 election is ahead. There have been 133 attack against Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP), eight attacks against Justice and Development Party (AKP), three attacks against People's Republican Party (CHP), four attacks against Democratic Regions Party (DBP), and one attack against Greens and Left Future Party as of June 7 [general elections].
"The attacks against HDP and DBP alone are by now over 400 within 2015. 19 co-mayors from HDP and DBP were arrested. Election and ballot box safety must be provided".
Preventing electoral cheating
"Considering the importance of November 1, 2015 general elections, we would like voters to be more sensitive, and political party observers to definitely receive wet signed sample of electoral result minutes".
İHD also added that it will again carry out independent election observation mission. (AS/TK)
Click here to read the article in Turkish
CLICK - BOMBING AT ANKARA PEACE RALLY
In the statement, it was noted that the cell type organization "receiving orders from Islamice State (ISIS) in Syria plans acts across Turkey". Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoğlu had said the attack was co-production of Islamice State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS), Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK), and Democratic Union Party (PYD).
President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan had added Syrian military intelligence agency, al-Mukhabarat to the list.
The statement notes the organization in subject has formed a cell type organization model in Gaziantep which receives orders directly from ISIS in Syria. There are also strong evidence suggestion the organization is also responsible for attacks on HDP in Mersin and Adana, the bombing at HDP's Diyarbakır meeting and Suruç bomb attack.
The statement lists the motives behind the attack based on digital materials are listed as follows:
Click here to read the article in Turkish
It was stated that approximately 30 undercover police officers have entered the building on Ortaklar Street in Mecidiyeköy.
Tweets such as "Around 30 undercover police officers entered İpek Media!" and "A large number of undercover police officers have deployed inside and outside! There may be an intervention..." shared on Bugün TV's Twitter account.
The trustee said that they won't show the court decision to the employees who want to see the decision.
Does the solution mean erasing all of the fairy tales? Maybe. The solution can be rebuilding fairy tales with being sensitive to social gender by destroying their old structures. Melek Özlem Sezer calls it “Anti-fairy tale”. She states that anti-fairy tale aims to focus on social gender, to destroy the stereotypical structure and to move reader far away from the old text by making him/her interrogate the given messages.
I met a book named “Siyah Pelerinli Kız* (Black Cloaked Girl)” by author Pınar Selek while searching for anti-fairy tales. The book was published by Şahmaran Women’s Solidarity and Research Center in 2009 along with a series of thirteen children’s books.
Siyah Pelerinli Kız’s location is Midye Island. The only obstacle for the island to be in bed of roses is a black veiled witch. She is a familiar witch. “As it’s being told, she comes from the depths of the earth. From the underworld. Her teeth are black and her claws are forty inches long. Her purpose is saddening people.” (Page: 8-9)
Why are all the witches female? Why are they ugly? Why do they live in unknown and far places?
The fiction of the book is common. Women off the charts are witches and they live isolated places in the depths of the earth. However, there is a problem. Black veiled witch attacks grooms. It is the deadlock of the book. Grooms in fairy tales are usually strong and they are princes. They defeat evil witches and dragons and they undergo perils and mysteries to reach their brides but in this fiction, grooms are beaten by the witch. Grooms have black eyes when the wedding time comes up. So, the cliché wedding image is upside down.
The protagonist of the book is a little girl named Yosun. Yosun’s brother is also beaten by the witch before his wedding day. “My brother was alone at home. When he would come out of the house, the witch came and beat him with her broom without saying a word. Beat and beat..” (Page: 10).
Yosun thinks about why the witch beats only grooms.
The little girl decides to look for the black veiled witch in order to find answers. She starts the job with her school mates when the school finishes. “My friends got bored with searching. They got thrilled at first but they lost their interests. Some of them were afraid. Eventually, my family understood we were searching the witch. They told spooky tales and forbade us from wandering around,” (Page: 14). The decisive little girl, Yosun, gets alone. Other people start to search the witch, too but they are usually males. Yosun’s family gets angry with her. They do anything to deter her. The little girl is reminded the gender roles of the society: “You are being a tomboy,” (Page: 15).
“We couldn’t dream without seeing nightmares,” (Page: 18) says Yosun and she defies the traditional structure built upon the fear and hits the road alone. She ends up in a forest where is a place women should keep away from; a place filled with fear and unknown. At the same time the forest is a place where fearless women get stronger embracing with the woods. The little girl listens to her heart and enters the forest with courage. The evening falls. She leans on an oak tree with fear and the tale continues with a different path. A second upside down. The oak tree talks and makes Yosun calm down. The tree knows why Yosun has come to the forest but asks Yosun why she has come. Little girl's aim is to reveal the truth. When oak tree trusts the girl since she behaves according to the truth not the patriarchic revenges, it tells where the witch lives.
Once upon a time, there was a young girl who was living in an island. Island people called her the Black Cloaked Girl due to her very dark and very long hair. She was poor with her fisher family and eight siblings. Her mother died while giving birth to her last child. Black Cloaked Girl loved a fisherman like her father. However, her father didn’t allow her to marry a beloved man but made her marry a wealthy man, instead. Black Cloaked Girl got very upset and shy. One day she went to the sea shore and waved at the boats in the sea by calling out her lover’s name. The girl’s husband got furious and stabbed her. He assumed that she was dead and dragged her to the forest by covering her with soil.
The telling of oak tree matches with patriarchic purity concept. The rest of the story makes you question that patriarchic purity and brings it down.
Black Cloaked Girl heals with the help of a forest fairy and she gets pregnant with the magic of the fairy. She gives birth but cannot breastfeed her baby due to the knives in her back. Knives prevent her from breastfeeding. Mother and the baby never age. Black Cloaked Girl gets angry with the pain because she cannot feed her baby. So, she starts to attack grooms. Her pain is fed by her rage. There is always an antidote according to the forest fairy. The love of a human is needed to break the spell but not a common love. That love needs solidarity with other women who are abused and exposed to violence.
Did Yosun save the Black Cloaked Girl from her knives? Was Black Cloaked Girl freed by overcoming her rage?
These questions constitute the end of the tale. Yes, the tale ends with a happy ending but not with a common one. The happy ending comes with the “antidote”.
I hope anti-fairy tales will increase and I hope our children will meet Black Cloaked Girl by Pınar Selek. Enjoy reading! (ED/HK)
Sönmez mapping ownership of media in Turkey has talked over transformation of media ownership during Justice and Development Party (AKP) governorship and impact of this process on media.
CLICK - TRUSTEE APPOINTED TO KOZA HOLDING
Media ownership in Turkey hasn't always been like this. Political players get directly involved in media ownership during AKP governorship as of 2002. Earlier, political players weren't that active in media. Those who have comprehended importance of media and have the eagerness to form a new regime have put more emphasis on media ownership.
Shaping by means of TMSF
Sabah and Uzan group along with some TV channels were transferred in 2001 crisis to Saving Deposit Insurance Fund (TMSF) of the banks they siphoned. When TMSF put them on the market, then Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdoğan stepped in. Sabah and ATV have directly been debited to Erdoğan's groom, Çalık.
Çukurova Group's incorporations Akşam, SHOW TV, Digitürk as well were given to figures Erdoğan pointed. Akşam was sold to Ethem Sancak, Digitürk to a Qatari group, and SHOW TV to Ciner who has paid homage to Erdoğan.
The community purchased Kanaltürk from Tuncay Özkan before falling out with AKP, published Bugün newspaper, founded Bugün TV.
Media sector
Media could never become a financial sector in which people can make money. Media owners were holding this power to derive benefits by taking advantage of exterior economy. Gülen Community and AKP have shown interest in this sector at the risk of loss because of its power of manipulation.
AKP-capital relation
There are five sets of media in Turkey:
- Capitals having an organic relation with AKP. Akşam, Yeni Şafak, Star, Yeni Akit. Sabah and ATV dubbed "pool media". Even state channel TRT and state-run Anadolu news Agency may be considered in this set.
- İpek and Zaman group which has an organic relation with the community before the trustee.
- The ones who have paid homage to AKP despite not having an organic relation. Those are Ciner, NTV and Şahenk, and Demirören group with Milliyet and Vatan.
- There is Doğan Group resisting against AKP.
- The fifth set is composed of outlets such as Sözcü, Cumhuriyet, BirGün, Aydınlık, Evrensel, Hayat TV, İMC TV, Özgür Gündem/DİHA which aren't related to political groups but have a certain political stance.We can refer to them as opposition set. We may also include websites like bianet, digital and social media in this set.
"Pool" media
We understand by sound recordings that Sabah and ATV were debited to [Ahmet] Çalık. Later on, Çalık wanted to leave for a reason we don't know. We understand by the instruction in the recordings that [Recep Tayyip] Erdoğan said "Form a pool, you all put some money and let things run".
Media sector and freedom of expression
At this atmosphere in which majority of media pay homage to the government, employees are being left with the dilemma of being a foot soldier or being excluded from those groups.
No one can say "I write as I wish". They may at the very most remain in engaged media by resorting to self-censor. The others have already become foot soldiers.
Newspapers are published with articles written in accordance with [Presidential] Palace's instructions. Thus, we cannot talk about liberty of the press or journalists. This doesn't affect journalists only but readers as well. Audience willing to receive news are being deprived of it and tried to be believed into "something".
Media ownership that transforms over 13 years
As AKP came to power, Doğan Group pursued "wait and see" strategy and didn't hold a stance against AKP.
Certain groups backed AKP in this period. AKP has showed its true colors when it said "I am shifting from assistant mastership to mastership" and steered for dictatorship. Especially Gezi protest in 2013 has revealed its colors. Certain parts of media have awakened and started to not pay homage. Split with the community has begun at this stage.
As for AKP, media has always been a mean to "gain consent from masses", receive approval during establishing the regime, extending its electorates and use them as human shields. Today, it cannot tolerate even the lean criticisms of the community. (EA/TK)
While Human Rights Watch likens Bugün TV and Kanaltürk raids to "Fortress attacks in Medieval", Committee to Protect Journalists (CPJ) said, "Screening camel movies instead of news a day before the election shows that leaders of Turkey don't have even perfunctory respect left for democracy."
CLICK - TRUSTEE APPOINTED TO KOZA HOLDING
HRW: Despise of human rights
HRW in its press release used statements as follows:
"Stopping broadcast by using security forces is a dramatic move that hasn't been seen as of coup d'etat in 1980. Raid footages look like fortress attacks in Medieval. Effort to censor critical media and seize control of a private company without presenting any evidence in Turkey manifests a deep despise of human rights.
CPJ: Leaders have no respect left for democracy
CPJ Europe and Central Asia Program Coordinator Nina Ognianova saying "Screening camel movies instead of news a day before the election shows that leaders of Turkey don't have even perfunctory respect left for democracy", called on the government to immediately return administration of Bugün TV, Kanaltürk and other Koza İpek Holding companies.
CLICK - REACTIONS BY JOURNALIST AGAINST TRUSTEE RULING
The statement noted that at least six Koza İpek employees have been detained in September and their hard drives seized, adding that these operations are a continuation of past oppressions. (ÇT/TK)
Click here to read the article in Turkish
Chief editor unseated
Chief Editor of Bugün daily Erhan Başyurt has been unseated by the trustee appointed to Koza İpek Holding.
"You will comply with our instructions"
The trustees appointed to Bugün daily giving a speech to employees following dismissal of Chief Editor Erhan Başyurt have notified that the newspaper will be published by tomorrow.
According to Cihan Acar's Periscope broadcast, the employees were told that they would "continue to work there as long as they comply with the instructions".
When one of the staff said referring to the newspaper "It is our honor", the trustee asked of his name and wrote it down on a paper shouting "Get out". Uniformed police officers and security forces battered the journalist.
"Their unlawfulnesses recorded"
One of the reporters of the newspaper, Cihan Acar, wrote as follows on his Twitter account:
"Let me tell you what happened. We are having a historic day today. The trustee wanted to sack and throw us out...The reason was the headline we were backing. All these were being recorded and watched by thousands...When they wanted to throw me out, my only concern was signal be cut. All their unlawfulnesses are recorded. As a journalist I tried to do my duty up to the end, conveyed information to people. I will make my living by selling bagel rather than remain silent against this usurpation".
Trustees
Here are the trustees appointed to media companies of Koza İpek Holding:
Ali Rıza Esmen (Former Vice General Director at Petkim and ex-employee of Turkish Airways (THY)
Çetin Altay
Hüdai Bal (He used to work at Turkuaz Media Group, and later appointed to Show TV administration by Saving Deposit Insurance Fund)
Fatih İcin (He is working at İstanbul Metropolitan Municipality)
Bilal Koyuncu
Ümit Önal (He worked as commercial group president at Turkuaz Media Group. He is board member of Digiturk) (AS/TK)
CLICK - TRUSTEE APPOINTED TO KOZA HOLDING
"AKP wants to silence all media outlets"
Turkish Journalists Association President Uğur Güç said in the statement he made on behalf of GÖP, "AKP government is determined to silence all opposition voices ahead of the elections. AKP has carried its operations against the press to another level by infiltrating and seizing Kanaltürk and Bugün TV with police forces.
"Political scene won't change by the end of election"
Click here to read the article in Turkish
Erdoğan remarked about the criticisms of European Union (EU) and Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe (OSCE) related to freedom of expression and election campaigns in Turkey:
“Those guys sent from EU and OSCE; they are all prejudiced persons. These prejudices won’t work in our country, hopefully.”
“There is a leakage, maybe”
The President talked about the trustee who was appointed to Koza İpek Holding’s media organs on October 27:
“I desire Turkish judgement will decide it fairly. The judgment already knows what should be done.”
“We told them to stop broadcasting, they didn’t”
President Erdoğan criticized the recent broadcasting policy of the media:
“They have never been honest. Their bosses, editor-in-chiefs and managers had been meeting me. Why did they give up the communication, after? They weren’t sensitive at all.
“When I called and told them to stop broadcasting, they didn’t. They only cared about getting the rating and even they broadcasted for the good of terrorist leaders. The aim of media should be broadcasting the truth, but it was not. Our nation and country paid a heavy price because of them.”
Northern Iraq and Northern Syria
Erdoğan added the military operations would continue:
“Democratic Union Party (PYD) wanted to cross the Euphrates River in eastern Turkey. Our military and their air operations didn’t let them. It is a warning. They should tidy themselves up. Turkey doesn’t need any permission and we should do anything that is needed. We don’t desire the same thing in Northern Syria like it happened in Northern Iraq.” (AS/BD)
Click here to read the article in Turkish
Voting will continue between the hours of 8 a.m. and 5 p.m. except for the cities below:
Adıyaman, Ağrı, Antep, Ardahan, Artvin, Batman, Bayburt, Bingöl, Bitlis, Dersim, Diyarbakır, Elazığ, Erzincan, Erzurum, Giresun, Gümüşhane, Hakkari, Iğdır, Kars, Kilis, Malatya, Maraş, Mardin, Muş, Ordu, Rize, Siirt, Sivas, Şırnak, Trabzon, Urfa, Van.
According to President of Presidency for Turks Abroad and Related Communities (YTB), Kudret Bülbül, votes abroad have exceeded 1, 270,000.
16 parties and independent candidates
In the election, 16 parties will compete for 550 seats in the parliament. The parties joining the election is as follows:
Justice and Development Party (AKP), Independent Turkey Party (BTP), Republican People's Party (CHP), Democratic Left Party (DSP), True Path Party (DYP), Rights and Freedoms Party (HAK-PAR), People's Lİberation Party (HKP),Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP), Communist Party (KP), Liberal Democrat Party (LDP), Nation Party (MP), Nationalist Movement Party (MHP), Felicity Party (SP), Patriotic Party (Vatan Partisi).
Supreme Electioan Board (YSK) announced there are 21 independent candidates. Artist İbrahim Tatlıses waived the candidacy.
385,000 Police and gendarmerie forces
Center of Disaster and Emergency Management has been established in Security General Directorate, Gendarmerie General Command, and Interior Ministry.
International observers heeded HDP's call
Around 300 international observer will monitor elections in 19 cities notably Diyarbakır, Van, and İstanbul.
Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) has announced that its call for fair, transparent and a democratic election has achieved its objective and the observers are going to come tomorrow to monitor the election.
Furthermore, local administrators, lawyers, students, journalists, academics, and students are also included in the committee. (EKN/TK)
Prime Minister and Justice and Development Party Leader Ahmet Davutoğlu voted in Konya where he made his statements:
Demirtaş emphasizing the need for peace and tranquility said, "We are undergoing a very important election in terms of Turkey's political history. I hope the political results that will come out of the election will be beneficial to whole country.
There are 54, 049, 851 voters countrywide. Voters voted at 175,000 ballot boxes.
Election results will be announced after Supreme Election Board announces lift of electoral ban. (EKN/TK)
Click here to read the article in Turkish.
Yüksekdağ and Demirtaş emphasized that election results are not a consequence of an electoral campaign and said, "Remaining above the threshold is victory of those resisting".
While Yüksekdağ has reminded of what happened as of June 7 elections, Demirtaş said, "I wish we had remained beneath the threshold but no one had died".
Yüksekdağ: We've come 3rd despite everything
"It was HDP that conducted the toughest electoral campaign among four parties entered the parliament. Thus, it was an election in which we had to hold in unfair and unequal conditions. HDP had carried out a campaign under duress and political pressure in June 7 as well, and these pressures have climbed prior to November 1.
- 258 civilians lost their lives. 33 of them were children. A considerable part of the killings took place in Kurdish provinces.
- In this period, over 100 citizens lost their lives in Suruç and Ankara.
- Operations were launched against our party buildings and administrators, around 500 of our party members or administrators were arrested.
- 190 of our party buildings faced lynch attacks.
"They wanted to reach a goal, forcing HDP to remain under threshold. AKP almost conducted its entire campaign against us. They carried out this endeavor by means of all state means and institutions.
"It is obvious there is a regression compared to June 7. We will discuss this with all aspects. What falls to our lot is to criticize ourself and we'll do it thoroughly.
"However, in such a difficult rally, this is a success gained by our peoples from pure spite. We thank every one who believe in us and believe in their and core power of our peoples".
Demirtaş: We've lost vote but stood against massacres
Demirtaş said these:
"High participation is pleasing but it was not a free, fair, and equal election. We have gained 10 percent despite a great uproar. HDP didn't conduct any campaign, we just tried to protect our people against massacres.
"Indeed the new-term parliament will start with enormous problems that await to be solved.
"In the coming days, we will address whatever hinders our rally and will make HDP stronger for the next election.
"Place of struggle is not parliamentary only but workplaces, farms, squares, everywhere is a place of struggle." (ÇT/TK)
"I congragulate Justice and Development Party (AKP) Leader and Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoğlu", said Erdoğan adding "I expect the world to show respect".
CLICK - AKP COMES TO POWER ALONE
"Democratic maturity"
Here are some important remarks from Erdoğan's written statement:
"Turkey has completed November 1 snap elections following June 7 elections which is a first in our multi-party political life in democratic maturity. Election results manifest that our nation are slanted towards stability and environment of confidence which was put in jeopardy by June 7 elections".
"Different meanings for different circles"
"AKP governing the country alone over 13 years has received authorization from our nation to govern for another four years. This election results contain important messages with different meanings for different circles.
"The most important message is indeed aimed at seperatist terror organization and structures included in it. Our beloved nation notably locals have given a strong response to the organization that aims to cast shadow of arms, bombs, violence, blood, tears, and dark face of terror upon Turkey".
"Everyone shall respect"
"Our nation has exhibited strong will in the direction of protecting unity and fraternity of our country through November 1 elections. I believe everyone will respect this will.
Kılıçdaroğlu stating that they are aware of this responsibility said, "We wish to have a strong democracy and well functioning rules of a healthy democracy in this country".
Here are some notes from Kılıçdaroğlu's statement:
"Turkey undertook this election under an extraordinary situation. Around 400 people have lost their lives during this process. This has to be thoroughly evaluated. Terror, security of life and property have overshadowed everything else".
"We respect national will"
"Power's turning into oppression is dangerous"
"The governing ones represent power, public conscience represents law. If power goes above law it turns into oppression in public, which harms our democracy. All governments should watch over supremacy of law".
"Power's turning into oppression is dangerous. Every citizen's security of life and property must be provided. We have always sided with oppressed and will continue to do so, because one of the main means to protect law is to side with oppressed.
"Resign" question
Kılıçdaroğlu later answered the questions of journalists. Kılıçdaroğlu in response to question "Will you resign?" said, "Don't mistake CHP with other parties. Our congress process is still ongoing, whatever the rules necessitate will be performed. Our votes increased but we don't find ourselves successful. Criteria of success is coming to power. Out authorized committees will evaluate it." (HK/TK)
Click here to read the article in Turkish
- Nationalist Movement Party will continue to stay on track without compromising on its principles and truths.All our party staff are are at work with passion, self-abnegation, and full heartedly. (HK/TK)
Click here to read the article in Turkish
Here are some notes from the article of Küçük who had pointed Doğan media and its staff as target before too:
"There we are Mr. Doğan. Justice and Development Party (AKP) has swept over, it is of your benefit to consider it well. I will deal with you seperately, Aydın Doğan. You will cut all your ties with Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) and Fethullah Terror Organization (FETÖ). Those who deem these two terror organizations as legit cannot be in mainstream media. If the ones who conduct black propaganda saying FETÖ and PKK are not terror organizations via Doğan Media, then there will be legal consequences. We will see it together".
He had done it before too
Cem Küçük in his article dated September 9 threatened Hürriyet daily columnist Ahmet Hakan to inflict violence;
CLICK - JOURNALIST AHMET HAKAN ATTACKED
When Hakan filed a complaint, Küçük defended himself saying it was an "irony".
Lastly, he threatened CNN Türk speaker Nevşin Mengü on live broadcast saying "I will end Nevşin Mengü's life in media sector".
He also warned FOX TV and its News Director Ercan Gün to be "very careful" on a program at Kanal 24 on October 29. (AS/TK)
Click here to read the article in Turkish
According to article by David Remnick from New Yorker, "They thought they were safe in Turkey" has been posted on ISIS' social media websites.
Demand for effective investigation
Reporters Without Borders (RSF) has demanded an effective investigation to be launched by Turkey over the murder.
Committee to Protect Journalists (CPJ) released a statement on its Twitter account and website saying "Death of two journalists exhibit what kind of dangers journalists face in Syria".
"If not us, then who?"
Murdered İbrahim Abdülkadir (20) and Firaz Hamadi at his 20s resided in Urfa last year fleeing Raqqa. Abdulkadir was a member of Bashar al Assad regime opposite Raqqa is Being Slaughtered Silently (RBSS). RBSS' website has been constantly hacked ISIS. ISIS had kidnapped and killed one of the founders of RBSS, El Moutaz Bellah İbrahim, in May 2014, and three months later videotaped two of its member after killing them.
Click here to read the article in Turkish
According to unofficial results, AKP has received 49.48 percent, CHP has received 25.31 percent, HDP has received 10.75 percent, and MHP has received 11.90 percent of the votes.
Surveys are mistaken in such atmospheres
Akça stated that AKP has been successful in its emphasize of stability, and HDP and MHP's problematic election strategies have decreased their votes.
"During the five-month period, many incidents occurred to affect voters' decision. Conflict atmosphere, Ankara bombing, not being able to form a coalition, all these caused anxiety among people. The government built its strategy on the claim that the coalition wouldn't be sustainable, would end up in chaos and to the only way to prevent is stability and governorship alone. Whether it's ethical, this election strategy has succeeded".
"What surveys missed was that because what voters feel at the last minute is very important as they take the seal. Many researches have been done on voter left alone in the room. Except for consolidated voters, generally voters are slanted towards the strong one if they are hesitant. This is what happened in this election and voters turned towards AKP".
Speeches of MHP and HDP too became effective
Click here to read the article in Turkish
* HDP is the successor of certain political parties which are predominantly composed by Kurdish people and mainly pursued Kurdish question oriented policies. However, HDP addresses issues of both Kurdish and non-Kurdish people by promising countrywide policies.
According to unofficial results of November 1 general election, 82 women entered parliament.
According to United Nations data, average rate of woman parliamentary is 22 percent in whole world. Turkey ranks 91st in woman-man equality in the world.
No women in 43 cities
No woman was elected in 43 out of 81 cities, which marks 53 percent.Here are the cities with no woman deputies:
Adıyaman, Amasya, Ardahan, Artvin, Bartın, Bayburt, Bilecik, Bingöl, Bolu, Burdur, Çanakkale, Çankırı, Edirne, Erzincan, Giresun, Hatay, Iğdır, Isparta, Karabük, Karaman, Kars, Kastamonu, Kırıkkale, Kırklareli, Kırşehir, Kilis, Kütahya, Mersin, Muğla, Nevşehir, Niğde, Ordu, Osmaniye, Rize, Sakarya, Sinop, Sivas, Tokat, Dersim, Uşak, Yalova, Yozgat, Zonguldak.
HDP holds highest rate
HDP entering parliament in June 7 elections with 32 women deputies (40 percent) enters parliament with 23 women deputies following November 1 election.
HDP's rate of women deputies is 38.9 percent.
Woman MP rate is 15.5 percent in CHP
CHP entering parliament with 21 women MPs (15.9 percent) in June 7 election got again 21 women elected while the ratio fell to 15.5 percent.
Woman MP rate decreased to 11 percent from 15.5 percent in AKP
AKP entering parliament with 40 women deputies in June 7 elections got 35 women deputies (11 percent) elected in November 1 election.
Three women deputies from MHP
While MHP had four women deputies (5 percent) in June 7 election, the number is three women deputies (7.5 percent) for the November 1 election.
List of women deputies
CHP: Elif Doğan Türkmen, Burcu Köksal, Ayşe Gülsün Bilgehan, Aylin Nazlıaka, Şenal Sarıhan, Lale Karabıyık, Nurhayat Altaca Kayışoğlu, Melike Basmacı, Gaye Usluer, Şafak Pavey, Gamze Akkuş İlgezdi, Selina Doğan, Gülay Yedekci, Didem Engin, Bihlun Tamaylıgil, Sibel Özdemir, Selin Sayek Böke, Zeynep Altıok, Fatma Kaplan Hürriyet, Tur Yıldız Biçer, Candan Yüceer.
AKP: Fatma Güldemet Sarı, Hatice Dudu Özkal, İlknur İnceöz, Jülide Sarıeroğlu, Tülay Selamoğlu, Lütfiye Selva Çam, Gökcen Özdoğan Enç, Sena Nur Çelik, Sema Kırcı, Emine Yavuz Gözgeç, Bennur Karaburun, Lütfiye İlksen Ceritoğlu Kurt, Sema Ramazanoğlu, Ayşe Keşir, Zehra Taşkesenlioğlu, Emine Nur Günay, Canan Candemir Çelik , Mihrimah Belma Satır, Ravza Kavakcı Kan, Ayşe Nur Bahçekapılı, Fatma Betül Sayan Kaya, Şirin Ünal, Fatma Benli, Serap Yaşar, Tülay Kaynarca, Fatma Seniha Nükhet Hotar, Nursel Reyhanlıoğlu, Hülya Nergis, Radiye Sezer Katırcıoğlu, Hüsnüye Erdoğan, Öznur Çalık, Ceyda Çankırı, Çiğdem Karaaslan, Ayşe Doğan, Ayşe Sula Köseoğlu.
MHP: Zühal Topcu, Deniz Depboylu, Arzu Erdem. (ÇT/TK)
Click here to read the article in Turkish
Babacan saying "We didn't say minimum wage will be 420 euros (1,300 liras)", stated that minimum wage is set by commission.
"Babacan explained the structure of the commission as follows: "There are both employers and employees in the commission, they discuss matters together but government's opinion is very influential. We had announced that we will put forward a proposal to set minimum wage as 420 euros."
In July the raise was 17 euros
Minimum wage increased to 330 euros from 313 euros by July 1 raise.During the election period, AKP had frequently used raise to minimum wage promise. While Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoğlu and President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan give the promises, AKP members in charge of economy said the commission will decide on that.
Davutoğlu: We are raising it to 420 euros
PM Davutoğlu on October 7 at meeting in Manisa province said, "We are raising minimum wage to 420 euros in the upcoming period. Minimum wage will increase in accordance with the level of danger threshold of the work increases. We will employ subcontractors".
Economy Minister Mehmet Şimşek in response to a question as to when the raise will be implemented said on October 16, "If Minimum Wage Fixing Commission says may minimum wage become 420 euros as of January 1, then it materializes in January. If they prefer a two-phased system, then new wage will be implemented in July".
Erdoğan: 420 euros on January 1
President Erdoğan said on October 22 at General Assembly of Confederation of Turkish Real Trade Unions that minimum wage will be increased to 420 euros to be effective as of January 1. (HK/TK)
Click here to read the article in Turkish
According to Yüksekova News, an operation was launched by Yüksekova District Police Department to remove the barriers. Çetin Dara (20) was shot in the heart and Doğan Doğma (18) was shot in the chest.
Here is General Staff's statement:
CLICK - AIR OPERATIONS AGAINST PKK AND ISIS CONTINUE
Following KCK Statement
It was asserted that Justice and Development Party (AKP) government would escalate the war in the written statement by Group of Communities in Kurdistan (KCK) Executive Commission Co-Chairship:
"AKP will both try to establish its authoritarian regime and to escalate the war that it carries on against Kurdish Liberation Movement* by means of the government which it first extorted and now enacted".
Click here to read the article in Turkish
The statement issued bearing signatures of co-chairs, Figen Yüksekdağ, Selahattin Demirtaş, Emine Ayna, Kamuran Yüksek, Sebahat Tuncel, Ertuğrul Kürkçü, Selma Irmak, Hatip Dicle, Group of Communities in Kurdistan (KCK) has been called on to persist unilateral truce and the government has been called on to halt all military and police operations to make truce mutual.
Öcalan must again be effective
Some notes from the statement that stresses parliament should take in charge to resolve Kurdish question are as follows:
A joint commission to be formed in parliament must come to the fore as the addressee of resolution process and society's expectation for peace must be met with a program of democracy to stop war. Should AKP (Justice and Development Party) respecting such a will to resolution agree to return to peace process and hand peace process to parliament with new mechanisms, we will too respect this approach.
Parliament may be turned into the center of resolution process creating conditions in which Mr. Öcalan who has been kept in lockdown for seven months can play his role more effectively. Our country may take important steps on the way to institutionalized and rooted democracy with a democratic, civil libertarian constitution. Security-oriented policies must be immediately abandoned. Future Turkey might be built all together step by step.
CHP must do its share
We would like it to be known that we are ready to take every kinds of right steps in case a positive approach is developed. No one should have suspicion that we will do our share to begin a new period starting from using a language to end tension and polarization in line with our peoples' common interests.
We hope that Republican Peoples' Party (CHP), as the main opposition party, will bravely do its share for the sake of democracy in these historic days.
Journalist were sent to the court for arrest based on Turkish Penal Code (TCK) law no. 214 of the title "incitement".
Lawyer of the journalists, Kadir Kökten speaking to bianet has drawn attention to that while they were sent to court for arrest over "incitement", their arrest has been performed over TCK law no. 313, which is "inciting public to arm against Government of Turkish Republic".
Besides access to journal's website, noktadergisi.net, has been blocked. (EA/TK)
CLICK - TRUSTEE APPOINTED TO KOZA HOLDING
Toros stating discharges have begun at first step in Kanaltürk and Bugün daily, the discharges began today since the trustee didn't have authority to lay off people last week.
CLICK - POLICE BREAK INTO İPEK MEDIA
Toros stated that he was forced to take a leave of absence with pay despite his objection, and didn't receive any document regarding discharge as the leave of absence continues until November 4.
Toros expressing that those discharged are primarily the ones who opposed the process said, "There were 58 people that we confirmed but discharges went on. Toda, more than 60 of our friends were laid off. I think the figure will exceed 100 in the upcoming days. Vast scale of discharges will be seen, they will liquidate the company".
CLICK - PAST IS PAST, TODAY IS TODAY
Toros said they will use any legal means possible as both journalists and İpek Media, and will get to European Court of Human Rights if necessary.
What had happened?
The trustee storming the first editorial meeting had battered and threatened the journalists with being kicked out by police force.
Avukat Kadir Karaçelik in his statement to bianet said, "We interpret court lifting signature practice imposed on defendants who have been sought heavy life sentece and hundreds of years of jail term as a gesture just before the summary judgement".
The court has revised its decision of judicial control on the defendants - two gendarmerie officers, one petty officer, and one special forces unit head - to international travel ban and pursuance obligation. Now the defendants will not go to police station every week for signature.
Karaçelik added that what they seek is "justice" and they feel worried considering sentence of acquittal in Musa Çitil trial.
Ankara Gendarmerie Area Commander tried over killing of 13 villagers in unsolved murders case in Mardin has been promoted to Diyarbakır Gendarmerie Area Command upon the sentence of acquittal.
Mehmet Nasir Öğüt, Eşref Oran, Sevda Öğüt, Sevim Öğüt, Mehmet Şakir Öğüt, Mehmet Şirin Öğüt, Aycan Öğüt, Cihan Öğüt and Cinal Öğüt residing in Vartinis were murdered by military men on October 2, 1993.
The soldiers raiding the village burned nine people including seven children by locking them in their house. They all lost their lives.
The first trial was held on December 4. The defendants said they don't "remember the incident" or "PKK (Kurdistan Workers' Party) started the fire" in their first testimony.
Then Hasköy District Gendarmerie Company Commander, now Gendarmerie Captain Bülent Karaoğlu, Hasköy District Gendarmerie Commando Company Commander First Lieutenant Hanefi Akyıldız, Muş Security Directorate Special Forces Unit Head Şerafettin Uz, and Gendarmerie Sergeant Major Turhan Nardoğan have been tried as defendants.
None have been arrested. (AS/TK)
These words were considered a moderation in HDP's "policies against presidential system" by some comments on media.
Former Vice Prime Minister and AKP Antep deputy Ali Babacan stating that the decision will be made by minimum wage commission had said, "we didn't say it is going to be of 420 euros".
"Our projects were kept in the background in June 7"
Çelik interpreted the difference between June 7 and November 1 elections as people choosing stability:
"Before June 7, opposition too pursued a promise oriented politics. On the other hand we didn't make any promises that could disturb financial discipline. We said what has to be done, thus our projects were kept behind. Citizens care about the money they will make. We entered the June 7 election in this atmosphere and results came out like that".
"Despite negative economic scene"
"Minimum wage will be of 420 euros"
Çelik said the following as to debates on minimum wage:
"Minimum wage is going to be of 420 euros. The possibility of it not happening is zero. The commission consists of 15 people will make a calculation by the end of December. They will say if they agree or not, then we as government will step in and offer 420 euros. They will most likely accept our offer. We really wish to increase it, it doesn't have any burden on us or citizens". (HK/TK)
Click here to read the article in Turkish
Erdoğan called Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) "treason network", and for "parallel state"* he used "malice network", and said media has "taken part in treason of separatist and parallel organizations" and "a group" from business world has supported it.
"November 1 elections was like a repetition of June 7 elections. Upon June 7 elections, Turkey faced a scene in which a party cannot form a government alone as of 2002. In the period starting from prior to June elections, we witnessed the speeches of some parties threatening the environment of confidence of the country. That is treason, and those are treason network.
"The malice network which we name as parallel state has used its every means available to attack Turkey's acquisitions. Those who see themselves as the flagship of our country's media have taken part in the treason of these separatist and parallel organizations".
"Our nation has maintained local stance"
"The most important message of November 1 is new constitution"
"One of the most important messages of November 1 election is the necessity of Turkey to solve the issue of new constitution. The nation awaits it, right? In the previous constitution works, I was the Prime Minister. Then, our number [of deputies] was close to 330, the number of opposition was 220. They all flee the [negotiation] table and we couldn't finish what we've started".
"This brother of yours has called Kurdish citizens my brothers and sisters"
"The forthcoming period is the period of obtaining result, not of debating or discussing. If a name is sought for this work, then it is now national unity and fraternity process.
"No one can overlook the big transformation Turkey has experienced over 13 years. We have removed assimilation policies. Until this brother of yours became prime minister, none of the prime ministers could call Kurdish citizens my brothers and sisters, but this brother of yours has called Kurdish citizens my brothers and sisters". (ÇT/TK)
Opposition embracing this perception, and Justice and Development Party (AKP) remaining silent except for a few statements such as the one made by AKP Leader Ahmet Davutoğlu "Our vote rate has increased by 2 points" have reinforced this perception.
Mistake of opinion poll companies
Keskin adds the companies say they can't "read roust", which means they couldn't make out that this many votes would pass from Nationalist Movement Party (MHP) and Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) to AKP.
Kardam departing from his past experiences explains the situation as follows:
"Firstly sample methods of the companies should be examined. It is very important how it chooses the sample. Usually it is acted only upon the categories like sex, age, and education. However houses should be picked and visited randomly. But it is not preferred due to its high cost".
Keskin: Surveys couldn't be conducted properly
Fatih Keskin again departs from opinion poll companies for not reading society well: "They have their own reasons, it is said the surveys in east and southeastern regions couldn't conducted properly. Besides, hesitant voters who persisted the hesitancy till the last week made their decision in favor of government. It was said that survey by phone was preferred over face to face meetings".
"Deciding by ballot box"
Keskin is of the opinion that last minute decisions by ballot box is a factor:
"The government has made strong promises to voters against the chaos environment in the escalated violence atmosphere. Thus, the hesitant voters made their decision in favor of the government at the moment of voting by ballot box. Nevertheless, this doesn't make the companies less guilty".
"Government effect"
Keskin touches on a point unique to November 1 election: "Despite survey data, political figures of government side said they will increase their number of deputies a couple of days before the election. I believe the data reflected on public are not the same with the ones the government had it done for itself. I believe public was misled".
At this point, according to Keskin this attitude of polls willingly or unwillingly indicating that vote rate of AKP is low, directed unconsolidated voters to vote for the government.
Kardam: "Social psychology has changed rapidly"
Kardam at this draws attention to society's psychological change: "In a very short period of time a rapid change occurred. It is not easy to measure it."
However, just like Fatih Keskin, Kardam is also of the opinion that all these are not sufficient to explain such a huge mistake.
"The progresses after June 7 elections have been very sudden, unexpected, and traumatic. So, voters were confused and it was already very difficult to measure it within this chaos.
Click here to read the article in Turkish
The court had ruled the "torture prohibition" was violated and ruled 19,000 euros (55,000 liras) to be paid to Ş.G. as solatium.
Ş.G. had been detained 14 years ago and claimed she was tortured, harassed and threatened with sexual assaults for days.
Charge of "organization membership" against the doctor documenting the torture
The tried police officers in their defense had said, "Ş.G. was already on hunger strike and she did the harms stated in the doctor report to herself".
One of the officers in his testimony had said they had "documents and sources, therefore there was no need to make her talk, and they didn't torture".
Besides, the officer asserting "there is no procedure such as eye binding", and torture claims are made to "dampen police's spirit of duty". He also added that the doctor reporting torture and wounds wrote that report because he was a "member of DHKPC".
Remained in custody for six days
Ş.G. was detained with the allegation of being member of MLKP on June 6, 2001 in Ankara and remained there until June 12 when she was arrested.
She was released on August 7 and acquitted on January 16 2003 by Ankara 11th Heavy Penal Court.
Torture with pressured water and harassment
She wrote as follows in her complaint issued to Vacation State Security Court which had disregarded the complaint:
"Until the day I was brought court I was kept under isolation and pressure conditions, I was pressured to testify, my testimony hasn't been added to the file, I was forced to approve allegations which have nothing to do with me by means of physical and psychological pressure, my eyes were shut with black tape, I was exposed to swearing during the interrogation.
"I was beaten up, harassed by having my dress removed, threatened with rape, subjected to torture by pressurized water".
11-year-long case dropped due to "photocopy"
Following the release, this time she filed a complaint to Ankara Chief Public Prosecutors Office about Anti-Terror Branch Directorate police officers presenting the report of torture too.
Eight police were indicted with the charges of "torturing to extract information".
In the festival this year there is "Jazz in Cinema" among prominent sections as well. Audience will witness adventures ranging from black musicians forced to stay behind screen to white actors and actresses painting their faces to black in these movies.
In Jazz in Cinema section, there are also short movies containing live performances and tour recordings, and two significant fiction movies focusing on musician characters.
Jazz Movies
Movies in this section are as follows:
Geç Kalan Hüzün (Too Late Blues) John Cassavates, 1961
Pete Kelly’nin Şarkıları (Pete Kelly's Blues) Jack Webb, 1955
Cab Calloway Söylüyor (Cab Calloway's Hi-De-Ho) Fred Waller, 1934
Black and Tan Fantasy Dudley Murphy, 1929
Ben Webster Avrupa’da (Big Ben: Ben Webster in Europe) Johanvan der Keuken, 1966
Begone Dull Care Norman McLaren, 1949
Yağmur Yağınca (When it Rains) Charles Burnett, 1995
In this section, Gjon Mili's Canlı Blues (Jammin' the Blues) directed in 1944 may also be seen.
The movies will be screened free of charge on November 29, Sunday.
A special movie: Varieté
A preview at Gezici Festival will take place on December 2. A 1925-made silent movie Varieté by German director Ewald André Dupont will be screened accompanied by live music.
Musicians to accompany the movie which was restored this year with their performances are Stephen Horne and Frank Bockius.
Gezici Festival will be in Ankara at Çağdaş Sanatlar Merkezi (Modern Arts Center) on the dates between 26 November - 2 December, and in Bursa on December 4-7, and in Kastamonu on December 9-10. (YY/TK)
Click here to read the article in Turkish
According to Dicle News Agency (DİHA), İstanbul Chief Public Prosecutor's Office started a prosecution on July 1 against 26 journalists and columnists. News and articles published in different dates have been given as justification to the prosecution.
Names of those who have been brought prosecution are as follows:
Demokratik Ulus Newspaper Managing Editor Nuray Candan, columnists of the newspaper Cemal Şerik, Ali Haydar Kaytan, Metin Arslan, Selahattin Erdem, Dilzar Dilok, Özgür Gündem Newspaper Co-Chief Editors Eren Keskin ve Hüseyin Aykol, Managing Editor of the newspaper Reyhan Çapan, columnists of the newspaper Suat Bozkuş, Şenel Karataş, Eyüp Güven, Muzaffer Ayata, Baki Gül, Hasan Kıyafet, Kemal Bülbül, Hasan Ali Kızıltoprak, Arif Altan, Ersin Çaksu, Zana Farqini, Doğan Durgun, Metin Yeğin, Mehmet Güç, Ayşe Batumlu, Ömer Ağın and DİHA reporter Hayri Demir. (NV/TK)
Click here to read the article in Turkish
Then Cizre District Gendarmerie Commander, retired Gendarmerie Senior Colonel Cemal Temizöz, former Cizre Mayor and Chief Village Guard Kamil Atağ, Kukel Atağ, Tamer Atağ, Adem Yakın, Fırat Altın (Abdülhakim Güven), Hıdır Altuğ and Burhanettin Kıyak who were charged with making 21 people forcefully disappear, forming organization for the purpose of committing crime and illegal arbitrary execution have acquitted.
"They had white Toroses"
Relatives of the lost ones participated the trial today. Hamit Özmen taking the floor after Harun Padır who talked about disappearance of his father and uncle, said "Cemal Temizöz and his men had white Toroses".
While Şevkiye Aslan says "May god not acquit them", Ömer Candoruk's wife Hanım Candoruk said these: "I'm begging you not to acquit. If he had made any mistake, he would be in jail, not under soil".
Names of those killed are as follows: Ramazan Elçi, Ramazan Uykur, Abdullah Efelti, İbrahim Adak, Mehmet Gürri Özer, İbrahim Danış, Abdurrahman Afşar, Abdurrahman Akyol, İhsan Arslan, Beşir Bayar, Abdurrezak Binzet, İzzet Padır, Abdullah Özdemir, Mustafa Aydın, Süleyman Gasyak, Abdulaziz Gasyak, Ömer Candoruk, Yahya Akman, Abdulhamit Düdük and an unidentified man.
Lawyers: There are detailed testimonies, evidences
Güray taking the floor after the families spoke said these:
One of the family lawyers Rıvdan Dalmış asked "We cannot reach personal conviction in an abstract way but with concrete evidences. Can you the persistence, intensity in killing?"
Temizöz complained about his "reputation"
Defendant Cemal Temizöz defended himself as follows:
"I totally agree with prosecution's dictum. I have lived for years fighting terror organizations with their threats.
Victim Temizöz
Defendant lawyer Mustafa Olcay Özhan started his speech saying "I agree that this is a political trial.
"This prosecution has been brought to Temizöz for solving criminal cases in Kayseri and GATA. Temizöz's promotion to General was obstructed with this case and he retired."
Click here to read the article in Turkish
According to Can Dündar from Cumhuriyet daily, Kılıçdaroğlu gathering with a group of journalists has spoken about Küçük listing some names for Doğan and call him to "fire those one, otherwise you will pay for it. We will make the decision about your future".
"Davutoğlu should have reacted"
CLICK - CEM KÜÇÜK TARGETS DOĞAN MEDIA
What had happened?
Meanwhile they tried to seize card of her camera and shouted, "From now on nothing will be like before, we will teach it to you".
Police also rended Kural's bianet press card from her neck.
Kural was set free by intervention of other reporters around.
Students gathered in front of İstnabul University, Faculty of Literature at Beyazıt Square at 2:00 p.m. to rally in order to protest 34th foundation anniversary of Council of Higher Education (YÖK).
Police have detained students by battering and handcuffing behind. (NV/TK)
Click here to read the article in Turkish
Police handcuffing behind tried to put bianet reporter Beyza Kural in police vehicle.
Meanwhile they tried to seize card of her camera and shouted, "From now on nothing will be like before, we will teach it to you".
Police have detained students by battering and handcuffing behind. (NV/TK)
The parliamentary question involves police's words, "from now on, nothing will be like before, we will teach it to you".
CLICK - DETAINMENT EFFORT BY HANDCUFFING BIANET REPORTER BEYZA KURAL
Sezgin Tanrıkulu has demanded the following questions to be answered:
How many people have been detained in YÖK protest? How many of them were students?
Which procedures were followed for the detained students?
"Violation of human rights"
- Is the allegation that police used disproportionate force true? Has prosecution started regarding the practice?
- What is the reason behind police detaining bianet reporter Beyza Kural by handcuffing her behind? Isn't this practice within the scope of torture?
- Isn't police detaining bianet reporter Beyza Kural by handcuffing her behind during the protest a violation of human rights?In which cases do police handcuff behind?
From who did police receive instruction?
If the allegation is true, then who is this police? From who did police receive instruction and authority? (AS/TK)
Attorney Veysel Vesek speaking to bianet as to JİTEM trial in which former Colonel Cemal Temizöz and other defendants have acquitted has said he witnessed that the relatives attending the trial have felt as they lost their relatives again.
They will object the verdict
Vesek said they will object the verdict and go for an appeal.
Source: Wikipedia
The court in this case and other case in which unsolved murders tried has asserted that witness testimonies do not suffice for conviction. However, attorney Vesek has stated that there are many evidence such as forensics reports, autopsy reports, bodies in addition to witness testimonies but they were not taken into attention by the court.
Why were evidence ignored?
Vesek explains why evidence were ignored and they were acquitted:
"Recently acquittal has been issued for cases trying crimes committed in 90s. State officers are being continued to be protected in accordance with jurisdiction's policy of impunity. The cases started with the promise of facing the past and 'white Toroses' but they weren't sincere. The general tendency in jurisdiction is to put these cases into cold storage.
"Even attorney's fee was being met by Interior Ministry. However, this practice is applicable to misconduct, yet neither murder nor extrajudicial killing is not misconduct. Meeting attorney's fee stopped upon our complaint. Even that is a state protection". (AS/TK)
Click here to read the article in Turkish
In response to Selin Ongun asking "You were saying 'we will not let you become president' however now you say 'it is discussable'", Altan Tan said, "Saying discussable doesn't entail we approve of one man system".
PKK's stance
Votes of HDP
A portion of religious, conservative voters who preferred AKP gave a message to HDP, "You have prioritized democratic struggle, promised to represent both Kurds and non-Kurds, and I backed that. However, if it will turn into a fight and you won't be able to use initiative enough, then I withdraw my support".
Two thirds of voters who came to HDP from AKP still remain for HDP. That was a warning, a yellow card. If we cannot develop policies in parallel with their demands, then this withdrawal may continue." (HK/TK)
Kurdish intellectuals participate in the matter as well. Almost every day, several Kurdish intellectuals express their thoughts on the matter. Most of them say "presidential system has to be discusses if it will solve Kurdish question". Furthermore, those advocating presidential system directly or indirectly are no less.
This is a very dangerous stance. Should Kurdish public induced to presidential system, democratic progress will be hindered and Kurdish question will remain unsolved in Turkey.
It should be kept in mind that Kurdish question may only be solved by means of establishing a liberalist democracy and have it spread in the roots of Turkey. Otherwise, hegemonic forces in the state will not back down from threatening policies despite all the suffering, destruction and death.
It shouldn't be forgotten that certain improvements in Kurdish question are not a blessing of hegemonic forces, but they are de facto acquisitions which can be destroyed any time. Recent practices are the obvious evidence of this deceptive politics.
In an environment in which freedom of the press has been put into cold storage, media outlets being seized by illegal means, media workers being unseated via threats, jurisdiction is under inspection, hundreds of anti-democratic rules such as Anti-Terror Law and Homeland Security Law are in effect, looking at presidential system in Turkey in a benevolent way is a political carelessness if not ignorance.
Presidential system that connects parliament, jurisdiction, economy, political and cultural life to will of one person who has the authority to rule with enactments inevitably causes the establishment of an authoritarian regime.
At the forum moderated by Prof. Dr. Osman Doğru from Marmara University, judge Muzaffer Şakar expressed issue in legislation that cause impunity.
Prof. Doğru: Impunity emerges in case you don't abide by ECHR principles
"European Court of Human Rights (ECHR) has principles as to how to investigate torture or ill treatment. Impunity emerges when these principles are contradicted.
Initial principle is that when an unverified information of [violation of] right to live or torture is received, an investigation must be launched without waiting for a complaint. If you don't launch an investigation, there won't be even impunity.
Secondly, the investigation must be conducted by independent or impartial institutes. Institutional or hierarchical independence and impartialness is not sufficient, prosecutors should also view themselves as independent. Official reports made by law enforcers shouldn't be trusted without further examination. If you don't collect evidence, perform autopsy, or easily convinced of statements like 'he/she committed suicide in custody', then impunity emerges.
Thirdly, the investigation must be conducted in a reasonable speed and caution. Otherwise, it drops due to prescription.
Finally, it is required to share the results with victim or relatives of the victim. Otherwise, their objection wouldn't be possible if you don't inform them".
Şakar: We don't live in a country in which we can trust in law
In the last 15 years, a lot of laws have changed. Unjudged groups, and even the ones judged them have been tried. We don't have a legislation issue or a jurisdiction tradition.
We had actually postponed the impunity issue to the end of revolution. We would have brought to book after revolution. However we moved it to earlier in the last 15 years. We said to state, "you made an agreement, now pull your weight".
The political power hearing this said 'I will bring to book, and punish them all'. That was a very exciting period.
Nevertheless, we were told recently that all those trials were a setup. We saw that the figures called here as defendant have become witnesses, and finally they will be the victims.
We are also fine with that but if he didn't kill those people as in Temizöz trial, if he is the victim, then they should tell who killed those 21 people.
Our mistake was this; why would a state that doesn't launch a probe into Roboski or a jurisdiction that doesn't maintain a fair trial for Hrant Dink, respond to a victimization which we faced 20 years ago? We don't live in a country in which we can expect justice from government or trust in law. Justice is not something you can demand here but get by force.
Global climate change, development, immigration
Presidential spokesperson İbrahim Kalın informed yesterday about G20 summit:
"Six groups have been formed during Turkey's presidency term, which are Youth20, Woman20, NGO20, Think Tanks20, Labor20, and Enterpreneur20. Subjects as to the global climate change will be discussed in detail. In the past days, Mr. President joined a teleconference, and will head to climate summit in France.
"Mr. President will meet with almost every leaders. Syrian crisis will be tackled in detail. Climate change, global development, immigration and terror will take place in final declaration".
Protests banned in Antalya
In the history of G20 summits, such large scale prohibitions on freedom of expression is the first.
Who will participate G20?
G20 countries are Germany, the U.S., Argentina, Australia, Brazil, China, Indonesia, France, South Africa, South Korea, India, England, Italy, Japan, Canada, Mexica, Russia, Saudi Arabia, Turkey, and EU Commission.
G20 summit will be held in China in 2016.
Azerbaijan is Turkey's invitee
Host country may invite non-member countries. Azerbijan has been invited to participate the G20 summit in Antalya.
Other invited countries
Spain is permanent invitee of G20. Singapore participates in the summit in the capacity as Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) Term President, Zimbabwe participates in the capacity as African Union Term President, and Senegal participates in capacity as New Partnership for Africa's Development (NEPAD) Term President.
Which leaders are coming?
Obama and Putin are expected in Antalya
U.S. President Barack Obama, Russian President Vladimir Putin, German Chancellor Angela Merkel, French President François Hollande, UK Prime Minister David Cameron are among the participants.
Canadian President Trudeau's first
43-year-old Justin Trudeau winning 180 seats in 338-seat parliament will come to the summit too in Antalya.
Climate forum will be held
G20 representatives responsible for 74 percent of global emissions that cause climate change will be discussing in Antalya the economic aspects of climate change.
Thus, the outcome of the summit holds great importance before the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change Conference of the Parties (COP21).
In the Climate Forum to be held in Boğaziçi University on November 12-13 before G20 summit, 150,000 participants from around 60 countries, the climate change will be discussed in detail. (NV/TK)
Click here to read the article in Turkish
One of the murdered women was issued a protection order three times.
64 percent of women were killed by their husbands or lovers, and 11 percent of women were killed by men whom they rejected their proposal to be together: 13 women were killed by their husbands, three by their lovers, three by men whom they rejected their proposal to be together, one by her friend's lover, one by her father, one by her son-in-law, one by her ex husband, one by her brother, and one by her father-in-law.
Fire arms were used in 55 percent of the murders: 12 women were killed by pistol, three by rifle, seven by knife, one by slit on throat, one by being choked, one by battered.
After the murders, three of the murderers committed suicide, one attempted suicide, three surrendered to law enforcers.
The cities where murders took place are Afyon, Ankara (2), Antalya, Antep (4), Ardahan (2), Artvin, Aydın, Bolu, Edirne, Eskişehir, Giresun, İstanbul (3), İzmir, Kırıkkale, Kocaeli (2), Mersin and Zonguldak.
Rape
Men raped 15 women and girls in October.
One of the raped women was mentally handicapped; 20 percent were not citizens of Turkey.
54 percent of the rapers were men who the victims knew: One woman was raped by her ex lover, one by a man from the same workplace, one by her employer, one by a man whom she met on social media, four by her male friends, five by men whom they don't know, one by a taxi driver, and one girl by shuttle driver.
33 percent of the rapes occurred in houses where they were taken: Five women were raped in the houses where they were taken, three on street, three in woods, one in vehicle, one in a familiar house, one in her own house, and one in a hotel room.
According to news reflected on media in October, rapers have been arrested in the 64 percent of the cases. 18 men have been arrested in total.
The age of rapers range between 16 and 41, and the age of raped women ranges between 12 and 43.
The cities where rape incidents took place are Antep, Bolu, Edirne, Elazığ, İstanbul (3), İzmir, Kayseri, Kocaeli (2), Konya, Samsun (2) ve Tekirdağ.
Forcing to prostitution
Men forced five women and girls to prostitution in Kocaeli and Adana in October.
Age of the five women forced to prostitution ranges between 16 and 23.
Four girls forced to prostitution were earlier raped by men who forced them to prostitution. Two men forced a woman to prostitution by threatening her with killing her children.
Wounding
Men wounded 29 women in October.
* One man took his ex wife and her three friends hostage by gun
* One man left an explosive written "wedding gift to my love" on it in front of his ex lover's house at the day of her wedding
* A woman wounded by knife fell off balcony whilst trying to escape from her husband. She has gotten paralyzed.
* Despite bar decision issued on him, the man who broke into by window of the home of his wife who filed for divorce tortured her. The wan has been released again.
* A man escaped from prison and wounded his wife by gun. He fled saying "I will shoot three more people, then I will surrender".
55 percent of women were subjected to violence by means that could lead to death: Five women were wounded by pistol, one by rifle, seven by knife; two were exposed to torture, one was sent explosive to her home by her ex lover. 13 women were battered.
The cities where wounding incidents took place in October are Adana (6), Aksaray (2), Antalya (2), Antep, Aydın, Erzurum, Isparta, İstanbul, İzmir (3), Kocaeli (2), Konya (3), Mersin, Nevşehir, Sakarya (2) and Uşak (2).
Harassment
Adana, Erzincan, İzmir, Kırklareli, Kütahya, Samsun
Six cases of harassment towards women took place on media.Five women and girls were physically exposed to sexual harassment; one male teacher recorded underpants of high school students via camera he set in his shoes.
Four of the harassments occurred on street, one at home, and one in a hotel.
66 percent of the harassers were unknown males to the women: Four women and girls were harassed by unknown men to them, one by a teacher, and one by lover of her mother.
In October, the age of harassers ranges between 33 and 76, and the age of harassed ranges between 15 and 24.
In total 80 male violence, murder, attempted murder, harassment, sexual violence, rape and wounding cases took place on media in October.
Of all male violence news, 27.5 percent is from Marmara, 19 percent from Mediterranean, 15 percent from Central Anatolia, 15 percent from Aegean, 10 percent from Black Sea, 7.5 percent from Southeastern Anatolia, and 6 percent from Eastern Anatolia regions.
In the summary section of the report, it is stated that President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan is still dealing with both domestic and international politics, which draws criticism as to going over the limits of his Constitutional power.
Besides, it is emphasized that fight against corruption remains insufficient and corruption widely continues.
Resolution process*
The report stating that resolution process hindered in resolution of Kurdish question, government intensely retaliated violence of Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) has stated "Resuming peace process is an emergent necessity".
"Authorities have initiated a militaristic security campaign against PKK within the scope of fight against terrorism. Kurdish question on which positive steps taken hindered".
It is also stated in the report that a prompt and transparent investigation should be conducted as to Ankara bombing occurred on October 10.
Judicial independence warning
The report stated that it was contradicted with European standards in terms of supremacy of law, freedom of expression and freedom of organization.
"Civil society is still active and continues to increasingly involve in public sphere but obstacles before freedom of organization are worrying.
"While judicial independence and separation of powers principles are shaken, judges and prosecutors are under strong political pressure. The government's struggle with alleged 'parallel structure'** within state has been harmful to judicial independence".
Rights of Women and LGBTİ
In the report which expressed that comprehensive adaptations required in laws as to fight against discrimination, it was stated that rights of women, children, and LGBTİ should be effectively ensured.
Freedom of expression and broadcasting bans
"Broadcasting bans regarding sensitive issues such as Ankara and Suruç attacks repeated frequently.
"Penalties against critical journalists, legists, and social media users against government and government officials are being widely exercised.
"Blocking websites over or without court order persists. Turkey is the country which files most application to Twitter to delete content or suspend accounts".
Human rights, refugees
"Constitution of Turkey ensures basic rights and human rights. In practice the situation has relatively improved in the recent years. However, basic lacks remain as they are".
The report expressed that rights are not adapted in accordance with European Court of Human Rights rules.
Turkey faced increasing number of refugees last year because of the situation in Syria and Iraq. Turkey with 2 million Syrians is the country which hosts the largest number of refugees. It is a huge difficulty for Turkey to deal with such a large number. The country has spent 6.7 billions of euros so far. (AS/TK)
It was stated that one of the wounded police officers is in critical condition.
An attack launched against patrolling armored police vehicle in Turkey's southeastern Silopi district of Şırnak province by PKK with rocket launcher and long barreled weapon at aroun 9:30 p.m.
After the attack, security forces have launched a wide-scale operation.
Interior Minister has cancelled his program
Interior Minister Selami Altınok has cancelled his program in Erzurum because of the attack in Silopi which left three police officers dead.
Altınok moved to Ankara from Erzurum Airport by private jet at 12:30 a.m.
Clashes in Silopi
Clashes in Silopi continue intermittently following police operations against Zap and Barbaros neighborhoods launched on August 7. As three civilians and one police officer lose their lives in the conflict, 15 people wounded by real bullets.
Four police killed resulted by remote controlled mine exploding, one other wounded on August 10.
Fire was opened on Fatma Ay and her 14-year-old child B.Ö. who were sleeping on the roof of their home on August 31.
* Photo: Ömer Faruk Cebesi / AA
47-year-old municipality worker Ramazan Tari lost his life because of shell fragments hitting his body as he was doing cleaning on the road. According to news on newspapers, explosion happened by mine planted under the road detonated.
A large number of armored police vehicles arrived at the scene following the explosion, and ambulances were dispatched. Injured police was taken under treatment in Mardin State Hospital.
Solution process also known as the Kurdish–Turkish peace process, is an ongoing peace process, which aims to resolve the Kurdish–Turkish conflict. The conflict has been ongoing since 1984 and resulted in some 40,000-100,000 mortal casualties and great economic losses for Turkey as well as high damage to the Kurdish population. Though there was a unilateral cease-fire between 1999 and 2004, the sides failed to gain understanding and the conflict became increasingly violent. The 2013 truce was working until September 2014, when it ended due to spillover of the Syrian Civil War.
There is no clash environment
Çelik said the following in a response to a question as to peace process:
"The name of the process in Turkey is not peace process. The name was resolution process earlier, now it is national unity and fraternity process. Calling it 'peace process' is not right. It sounds as there are two legitimate sides if called peace process.
"We don't only meet with Kurdish citizens, but people from all circles. All NGOs are addressee. Politicians speaking with İmralı is out of question. If needed, this meeting might be made for the sake of security and interests of the state. HDP (Peoples' Democratic Party) tries to reduce the status of being the addressee to itself. All political parties having a word to say and sociological elements are the addressee in this matter".
Çelik also added that a new constitution is necessary to reach its goals by 2023, and Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoğlu will hold talks with party leader regarding this matter. (NV/TK)
Though there was a unilateral cease-fire between 1999 and 2004, the sides failed to gain understanding and the conflict became increasingly violent. The 2013 truce was working until September 2014, when it ended due to spillover of the Syrian Civil War.
There is no clash environment
Çelik said the following in a response to a question as to peace process:
"The name of the process in Turkey is not peace process. The name was resolution process earlier, now it is national unity and fraternity process. Calling it 'peace process' is not right. It sounds as there are two legitimate sides if called peace process.
"We don't only meet with Kurdish citizens, but people from all circles. All NGOs are addressee. Politicians speaking with İmralı is out of question. If needed, this meeting might be made for the sake of security and interests of the state. HDP (Peoples' Democratic Party) tries to reduce the status of being the addressee to itself. All political parties having a word to say and sociological elements are the addressee in this matter".
Çelik also added that a new constitution is necessary to reach its goals by 2023, and Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoğlu will hold talks with party leader regarding this matter. (NV/TK)
HDP saying "There shouldn't be any problem that we can't solve by discussing", has called on the government to stop the operations and solve the issue by means of negotiation by respecting political will of Kurdish people.
HDP briefly said the followings:
"Reliable information cannot be obtained regarding dead and wounded"
"It is the 9th day of curfew in Silvan. Reliable information cannot be obtained regarding dead and wounded. Hundreds of houses and work places have become unusable.
"There isn't bread, electricity, nor water in many neighborhoods. Internet and cell phones are not accessible in the district.
"Helicopter and unmanned air vehicles tour around in the sky. Operations are launched by special forces, gendarmerie, military tanks, armored vehicles, shells, and snipers in the district. Shellings by tanks deployed on hills of the district continue".
"Silvan is in Turkey"
"Dose of state violence and violation of rights has been increasing incrementally. All basic human rights notably right to live have been violated.
"Silvan is within the borders of Turkey. Residents of the district are Republic of Turkey citizens. The reason why they have to endure cruelty is them looking out for their political will, defending their rights, and struggling for freedom and equality against cruelty.
"You cannot oppress peoples' democratic demand with tanks, shelling and cruelty. Attacks in Silvan and other districts are not "fighting against terror" but operation of oppressing peoples and cowing them into submission".
Bar is in Silvan too
Diyarbakır Bar as well carries on with its examination of civilian deaths in Silvan. Diyarbakır Bar President Tahir Elçi said many civilian deaths occurred within the nine days of curfew and called for the operations to be halted. (EKN/TK)
Click here to read the article in Turkish
According to initial findings, civilians named Müslüm Tayar, Sertip Polat, Engin Gezici, İsmet Gezici, Mehmet Gündüz, Yakup Sinba, and special forces officer Necmi Çakır have died during the operations conducted by helicopter and unmanned aerial vehicles following the curfew declared last week on November 3.
Many people have been reportedly wounded in the district.
Second Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) delegation arrived in Silvan at around 2 p.m. HDP deputies Feleknas Uca and Nursel Aydoğan said they worry about people's lives in the district. "People in the district face the possibility of a massacre", said Uca.
HDP Co-Spokesperson Sebahat Tuncel has addressed Justice and Development Party (AKP) saying "You cannot resolve the issue with tanks and shelling".
Demirtaş: There is city war which military involves in Silvan
According to news on Yüksekova News, HDP Co-Chair Selahattin Demirtaş speaking to Med Nuçe TV channel has responded to questions about Silvan.
Berk said they as HDP delegation including deputies arrived in the district at around 4:00 p.m., however couldn't make it to the neighborhoods which the curfew is lasting.
"There are wounded people"
We could hear gun shots as we speak to Edip Berk on the phone. Berk said as to situation in the districts as follows:
"Residents of the neighborhoods can contact only via home phones. Everyone is nervous.
"HDP deputies Nursel Aydoğan, Ayşe Acar Başaran, and Sibel Yiğitalp are in the neighborhoods. They say there are many wounded people in where they are now. Normally it is allowed to take wounded people, but even that isn't allowed.
"Public buildings, therefore health centers too are closed in the neighborhoods. Medical teams are worried about entering the neighborhoods, they are afraid of snipers".
"Two civilian casualties"
"There are two civilian casualties. Their bodies weren't handed for a long time. They were able to receive the bodies recently. They were moved out of the neighborhood, now autopsy is being performed".
"Food shortage"
"There is a major food shortage endured in the neighborhoods. We have held talks for food to be delivered to the neighborhoods, a truck of food is standing by".
"Heavy operation"
"There are tanks on the hills. Fire opened by helicopter into the houses. There is heavy shelling. A 5-year-old girl was injured by a shrapnel piece in where there is no curfew.
"We talked to police chief, they say they can't provide our security of life. Around 1,000 people who have relatives in the neighborhoods want to enter the neighborhoods and to know what is happening despite all".
"We are all together as deputies, NGOs, mayors. Police chief says he doesn't lead the operation, it is conducted by the ministry. It is a very heavy operation.
Vote rates of political parties in recent general elections
In June 7, 2015 general election, the votes are as follows:HDP (% 88,9), Justice and Development Party (AKP) (5,70), People's Republican Party (CHP) (% 0,34), Nationalist Movement Party (MHP) (% 0,80)
"There is a missing aspect of job security law to be implemented at schools as well. It aims to provide security of staff only, which means anyone but students."
Grown up oriented
Yılmaz stating job security law to be implemented at schools has no benefit to students, drew attention to that the law is grown up oriented.
"General job security principles don't cover students at schools. These principles are already regulated grown up oriented.
"In order to establish private physical security conditions or to prepare conditions for environmental security for children, children's habits of use, and their developmental features should be assessed.
"The present job security law is far from that point".
A system covering children
Yılmaz reminding the need to have job security experts present within the frame of law in time, has expressed his suggestions as follows:
"Ministry of National Education should appoint these experts. Those people should be held responsible for children's physical security in concern with schools. This could be done by an interrelating regulation or by a section included in job security law.
"Development of sub-principles of the law could be specific to environments". (YY/TK)
Click here to read the article in Turkish
The investigation is about Tuncel's speeches in 2010 and 2013.
Prosecution: There is absconding suspicion
Tuncel testifying to prosecution after being detained was issued to Vacation Court for "absconding suspicion".
According to Hürriyet daily, higher council discussed "Tarafsız Bölge" program in which Tahir Elçi appeared as a guest.
RTÜK has fined CNN Türk TV channel 225,000 euros for "promoting and praising terrorism and terror organizations". Channel's license may be rescinded if it is repeated.
The penalty was issued by the votes of two Nationalist Movement Party (MHP) members. RTÜK consists of four Justice and Development Party (AKP) members, two Republican People's Party (CHP) members, two MHP members and one Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) member.
Hakan: We can't know what guest will say on live broadcast
Ahmet Hakan speaking to hurriyet.com.tr upon RTÜK's decision said, "We can't know in advance what a guest will say on a live broadcast in studio. He/she may say anything. What matters is to object. That was a very wrong penalty".
Elçi: Responsibility is mine
Tahir Elçi making a statement as to the matter on Twitter said, "The responsibility is mine. The penalty over my words on CNN Türk is unfair and unjust. How can Ahmet Hakan or CNN Türk be responsible for my words".ahir Elçi, "CNN Türk'e verilen cezanın yargı yollarından iptal edilmemesi halinde parayı ödemeye de hazırım" dedi.
According to İHD's figures, 128 civilians of whom 41 are children have lost their lives, 195 civilians of whom 51 are children wounded by mostly armed forces of the state outside the armed conflict environment in the dates between June 7 and November 9.
The total civilian death toll has become 262, and 759 others wounded in total along with Suruç and Ankara attacks.
150 soldiers, 181 PKK members killed
Nine of the civilians caught in the armed conflict have lost their lives, 10 others injured.
Call for non-conflict
İHD has called to "end armed conflict right away and demand perpetual non-conflict".
"Political authority has to embrace policies which will ensure returning to non-conflict environment by taking into consideration the political environment of peace and resolution process.
"November 1 general election results indicate that people insist on peace. Thus, both state and PKK shall withdraw to a position that secures non-conflict".
Co-Mayors arrested
"Meanwhile, 5,713 people including 188 children who predominantly participate in Kurdish political movement have been detained, 1,004 including 36 children have been arrested", says the statement.
"Among the arrestees there are 19 Co-Mayors from HDP and DBP in addition to 63 province and district executives of these parties".
Attacks on political parties
İHD in its statement has listed attacks launched on political parties:
"133 attacks on HDP, eight attacks on AKP, three attacks on CHP, four attacks on DBP, and one attack on Greens and Left Future Party were launched.
Following Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoğlu demanding probe into handcuff of women wearing head scarf in the operation against Gülen Community in Manisa, Manisa Police Chief, Tayfur Erdal Ceren, has been suspended.
In the recent years, especially after Gezi protests people have been detained by being beaten, and handcuffed from behind. Nevertheless, let alone police chief even law enforcers acting illegally haven't faced any sanctions.
Cinmen: It is against the regulations
Lawyer Ergin Cinmen speaking to bianet has expressed that according to Regulations of Seizure, Detainment, Questioning, "People who are transferred from somewhere to another by being seized or arrested can be handcuffed if there is any sign of the person to run away or pose danger to himself/herself or others around".
Therefore, Cinmen underlines that handcuffing people detained in Manisa is against the regulations, and especially beating people in detainment is totally agains the regulations.
Detainment examples with photos
We've compiled photos of police inflicting violence during detainment in recent years:
bianet reporter Beyza Kural was tried to be taken into custody by police officers saying "Nothing will be like before. We will teach it to you" whilst she was pursuing news as to YÖK protests on November 6, 2015. Kural
A group of around 30 students gathering in front of Akdeniz University Campus Central Dining Hall wanted to rally to protest foundation anniversary of YÖK. This is how police violence reflected on photos.
After the bomb attack in Suruç which claimed 33 lives, police attacking a group intended to rally on July 24, 2015 in Kadıköy district of İstanbul province got people on the ground by handcuffing them from behind.
Three people going in front of İzmir Governorate to have their friend who was detained on July 28, 2015 released was detained by being battered.
This is how 29 people waiting in front of İstanbul Security Directorate for their friends who was detained on April 3, 2015.
31 people who protested during trial held on May 25, 2015 over Hasan Ferit Gedik that was murdered in Gülsuyu were taken into custody.
This is how the 23 people who wanted to protest Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS) attack on Kobane were detained on October 13, 2014.
Police officer battered and pulled hair of the young lady on June 2, 2013 during Gezi protests in İzmir.
Hip of Dilşat Aktaş was broken by police attack on May 31, 2011 in Ankara in the protest against killing of Metin Lokumcu in Hopa
Police beat the woman who said "Don't hit, I'm pregnant" in the protest against then Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdoğan gathering with rectors at Dolmabahçe Palace on December 4, 2010. The woman miscarried but court issued verdict of non-prosecution on the grounds that "it is not medically possible to establish a causal conncetion between police violence and miscarriage".
Police used disproportionate force on students who wanted to commemorate at Ondokuz Mayıs University on December 25, 2014. (EKN/TK)
Yağmur later wrote that he has been released by vacation court.
He was also assaulted for displaying construction work in Rıza Sarraf's pavilion.
Click here to read the article in Turkish
During police attack, both pepper gas and pressured water were used on protesters. HDP Co-Chair Figen Yüksekdağ was about to be hit by a gas capsule on her head, which she evaded by bending her head at the last moment.
Delegation composed of Democratic Society Congress (DTK) Co-Chair Hatip Dicle, HDP deputy from Diyarbakır İdris Baluken, HDK and Democratic Regions' Party (DBP) Co-Mayors and executives gathered in municipality building to leave for three neighborhoods where police assault continues.
"Neighborhoods are under blockade"
Kürkçü described the attack they were exposed to as follows:
"We all left together from municipality building for the neighborhoods. We were intercepted on the road by TOMA (riot control vehicle) and riot squad, and that clash began. Police not letting a negotiation commenced attack with threatening words. First, pressured water was used on us, then fired plastic bullets and pepper gas. We returned to the municipality building".
Kürkçü stated that police attack is persisting:
"People seek self-governance"
Kürkçü saying helicopters constantly fly over the district, reminded that it's 10th day of the curfew:
"As reflected on media, authorities such as governor and caimacam say they are determined to 'wipe the three neighborhoods off the map', and that neighborhoods are willing to keep their places on the map.
"The people seek self-governance. We don't see this decision legitimate only but the struggle to achieve it is legitimate as well in our opinion".
According Fırat News Agency, 18-year-old Sümeyye Sinbağ was wounded by her leg in the attack. Sinbağ, the sister of Yakup Sinbağ who was killed two days ago, has been taken to hospital.
The curfew declared in Mescit, Tekel, and Konak neighborhoods of Silvan district by Diyarbakır Governorate on November 3, 2015 is in 10th day. Police operations still continue. In the operations, seven people have lost their lives.
Co-Mayors are Yüksel Bodakçi and Melikşah Teke from HDP.
In June 7, 2015 general election, the votes are as follows:HDP (% 88,9), Justice and Development Party (AKP) (5,70), People's Republican Party (CHP) (% 0,34), Nationalist Movement Party (MHP) (% 0,80).In November 1, 2015 general snap election, the votes are as follows:HDP (% 87,9), AKP (% 10,5), CHP (% 0,5), MHP (%0,3). (AS/TK)
Sixth curfew in two months
It was announced by Diyarbakır Governorate on November 3, 2015 that curfew will be imposed on the grounds to "close ditches opened" in Mescit, Tekel, and Konak neighborhoods. This is the sixth curfew declared in two months on Silvan district with population of 86,000.
2014 nüfus sayımına göre sokağa çıkma yasağı uygulanan mahallelerin nüfus bilgileri şöyle:
Konak Neighborhood: 5,193
Tekel Neighborhood: 2,812.
Curfew day by day
November 3
Müslüm Tayyar (22) reportedly going home at the morning hours lost his life by fire armored police vehicle commenced.
Sertip Polat (20) was shot to dead in the evening in the operation launched by special operations teams.
As a reult of special operations teams commencing fire on people gathered in Silvan to protest curfew, Abdulkerim Eleftos (27) was wounded by a bullet hit his leg, and former Kurd-Der executive Faysal Korkmaz (40) was wounded by grenade thrower shell hit his body.
November 4
Engin Gezici (24) was heavily wounded resulted by fire special forces teams commenced.
His aunt, İsmet Gezici (55), seeing her wounded nephew and went by him to help was also shot by fire the same team commenced, both civilians lost their lives in the hospital where they were taken for treatment.
November 5
Mukaddes Arbağ (33) was heavily wounded at home during police raid.
November 6-7
Rıdvan Us (20) on November 6, and the day after Adnan Bakır states to be artisan in Tekel neighborhood were heavily wounded by shrapnel piece of grenade launcher bullet.
November 8
Mehmet Emin Çiçek (70) was wounded resulted by howitzer fired by special operations teams.
November 9
In Feridun neighborhood where there is no curfew, Mehmet Gündüz (Yavuz) (45) lost his life due to special operations teams opened fire at a coffee house. Seyfettin Kurt (44), Abdulsamet Kesici (50), and Kudbettin Çiçek were heavily wounded.
Yakup Sinbağ (20) lost his life by fire special operations teams opened in Tekel neighborhood at the evening hours.
Mustafa Sağlam (26) was wounded by fire opened in Selahattin neighborhood.
No water nor electricity, operation continues
TİHV has released balance-sheet on what happened during curfew in Silvan:
* In total 14 civilians died as of August 16 when initial curfew was imposed.
* As of the curfew declared on November 3, military tanks deploying around the city have blockaded the district. Military operations including aerial attacks backed by helicopters have lasted day and night.
* In the three neighborhoods where the curfew imposed, there is no water, nor electricity. It was stated that people can't access food including bread, and the neighborhoods in question have become unlivable.
* Special operations police reportedly made announcement via megaphone in armored vehicles and mosques, "Abandon the neighborhood or we will open fire on you all".
* 20,000 people had to leave the area of 86,000 population upon operations in Silvan.
* The delegation which includes HDP deputies Çağlar Demirel and Feleknas Uca wanted to go on November 10 to Mescit neighborhood where curfew is imposed but they were denied by security forces.
* A tank reportedly crushed a soldier to death in district central on November 10.
* It was stated that an Interior Ministry official said to HDP deputies that the operations have been intensified, and will "wipe the three neighborhoods off the map".
Rights to live, freedom of expression and assembly have been violated in some solidarity protests in some of the areas of the neighborhoods where curfew has been imposed.
23 people were detained as a result of intervention made by security forces against people who wanted to protest the curfew on November 7.
Mehmet Emin Butanri (42) and Rafet Aşut (23) were wounded by police firing at people who took it to the streets on November 9 in Cizre to protest against curfew in Silvan.
Silvan is one of 17 districts of Turkey's southeastern Diyarbakır province. Its population is 86,000,663 with a surface area of 1,373 km2. It consists of 11 neighborhoods, namely Yüksek, Konak, Cami, Feridun, Kale, Mescit, Tekel, Selahattin, Bağlar, Bahçelievler and Yenişehir. It is 78 km away from Diyarbakır center.
Co-Mayors are Yüksel Bodakçi and Melikşah Teke from HDP.
November 1, 2015 general election results: HDP (% 87,9), AKP (% 10,5), CHP (% 0,5), MHP (% 0,3)
June 7, 2015 general election results: HDP (% 88,9), AKP (5,70), CHP (% 0,34), MHP (% 0,80)
* Photo: Anadolu Agency, Silvan
Sustainable Life Film Festival this year will appear before audience with 29 movies, four chattings, four music performances, four movies' audio description, and an exhibition.
City, struggle, natural resources...
In the program of the festival organized as of 2013, there are movies such as "Bikes vs Cars" focusing on themes like cities filled with cars, ever-growing noisy traffic chaos; "Sea Change" about a Turkana native starting a grassroots fight to prevent Gibe III dam in Ethiopia in order to protect basic water resources, namely Omo River and Turkana Lake, of Turkana natives; "Planet Rethink" analyzing at what stage we've arrived by using our planet's limited resources for technology over financial and ecological crisis.
Price of dressing
The True Cost treats a story about our dresses. It is a movie about the dresses we wear, the people who make them, and the impact of this industry on the world.
Cost of dressing has been falling as its humanitarian and environmental impacts dramatically increase. The True Cost is a documentary uncovering the curtain and urges us to contemplate on who pays the real price of our dresses.
Three days long
Click here to read the article in Turkish
In the news released on Hürriyet's website, a photo of President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan eating a chicken was added to Leonardo Da Vinci's The Last Supper, Il Cenacolo, and used as the image of the news. This image remained online for a few minutes.
While Hürriyet daily apologized to President Erdoğan, it has announced that it laid off two journalists.
Statement by Hürriyet
Here is Hürriyet's statement:
"It is detected in sorrow that on our newspaper's website, a totally unacceptable image showing President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan too took place.
"The content in question has been removed as soon as realized.
"At the end of the fast investigation, editor and content head of digital by-products department who have been found to be responsible from the mistake which came to light that it occurred as a result of a mistake have been discharged.
As Samanyolu TV broadcasting continues, "No signal" message appeared by 12:01 a.m.
In the statement made by Samanyolu news, it was expressed that TÜRKSAT has a contract with Samanyolu Broadcasting Group till 2024. Samanyolu Broadcasting Group will take the decision which the group defines as arbitrary to court.
A moment of silence
Erdoğan conveying his condolences to President of France for the attacks in Paris, called for a moment of silence for those who lost their lives in terror attacks in Ankara and Paris.
Attacks
President Erdoğan stating that the relation between economy and security with respect to the attack in France cannot be overlooked, emphasized that economy, which is the major area of G20 interest, is not independent from political, social, and cultural issues, especially from human life.
He said that the attacks Turkey faced in the past 4 months, attacks in Paris and Syrian crisis are a clear proof to that.
“These developments manifest that terrorism persists to threaten peace and security of all of us. We as Turkey believe that our determination to empower the cooperation to fight against terror should be expressed more powerfully”.
What happened in France?
Armed and bombed attacks took place in at least seven different locations in French capital Paris on Friday. The next morning, President Hollande announced eight attackers were killed, and at least 127 civilians lost their lives.
According to news agencies, the death toll exceeds 150. Armed attackers took many people hostage in Bataclan concert hall. It was stated that attackers killed 118 people during the rescue operation launched by police.
Explosions during the game
Around 40 people lost their lives in the attacks.
Hollande was at the stadium at the time of the explosions. Hollande being securely taken away from the stadium announced that emergency rule has been declared in the country. (ÇT/BK/TK)
Click here and here to read the article in Turkish
A woman killed
According to Dicle News Agency, the woman named Selamet Yeşilmen trying to get down to the garden from second floor and her two children were opened fire from armored vehicle. In the news, it was stated that Yeşilmen had five children and she was pregnant.
A citizen named Abdulhakim Aytimur in Devrim neighborhood has been heavily wounded resulted by shrapnel piece scattered from bombs police threw.
Sub-governorship denied allegations
Nusaybin sub-governorship in a written statement has rejected the allegations that casualties were caused by security forces.
“As a result of initial findings, it was determined that our citizens killed and wounded were injured due to shrapnel pieces.
“Malicious allegations such as ‘Citizens were slaughtered by police’ by some media outlets and social media are utterly groundless. There hasn’t been any operation launched at the scene of the incident by safety members, besides there is no safety members in that area”.
Click here and here to read the article in Turkish
Davutoğlu criticizing dissidence stating that they were called “murderers” upon Ankara massacre, has showed French press and reactions of opposition and intellectuals against the massacre in Paris as example.
CLICK – ERDOĞAN ON PARİS ATTACK AT G20
“I am calling out to unscrupulous ones who called me and the President murderer. Those should learn lesson from the reaction French dissidence.
“Have you seen any image, or video? Have you seen any dissident attacking French government?” (EKN/TK)
Click here to read the article in Turkish
CLICK - 4TH DAY OF CURFEW IN NUSAYBİN, ONE DEAD FOUR WOUNDED
According to news of İsmail Saymaz from Radikal daily, it was stated in the autopsy report that “metal pieces” were extracted from Yeşilmen’s chin and thigh, and many wounds detected caused these pieces.
İHD: Why were the neighbor and children shot?
Human Rights Association (İHD) Mardin Branch has posed following questions to Mardin Governorate:
- What is the explanation of children getting wounded though it is confimed that Yeşilmen died by shrapnel pieces?
- Why was the citizen named Yılmaz Tutak coming to assistance of Yeşilmen family shot?
- How many meters was there between Yeşilmen’s home and closes operational force?
- Are you being informed during the day regarding which weapons and ammo law enforcers use, or have the law enforcers been given unlimited authority in a state of total unlawfulness including violation of right to live?
"Family photo" of G20
Middle row – from left to right
President of Malaysia Necip Rezak, President of Spain Mariano Rajoy, President of Canada Justin Trudeau, Prime Minister of Italy Matteo Renzi, Prime Minister of England David Cameron, Prime Minister of Australia Malcolm Turnbull, German Chancellor Angela Merkel, President of Japan Shinzo Abe, President of India Narendra Modi, President of Singapore Lee Hsien Loong, Finance Minister of Argentina Axel Kicillof, French Minister of Foreign Affairs Laurent Fabius.
Click here to read the article in Turkish
According to the news by Fırat News Agency, police shot Süleyman A. (65) on his way to his daughter’s house.
CLICK - 4TH DAY OF CURFEW IN NUSAYBIN, ONE DEAD FOUR WOUNDED
Süleyman A. was shot in the leg as passing by the street by police fire who were deployed at the other end of the street. Süleyman A. was taken to a house by people nearby.
Süleyman A. who cannot be taken to hospital due to police blockade and has been treated by citizens hasn’t a risk of death.
About Nusaybin
Its Co-Mayors are Sara Kaya and Cengiz Kök from Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP).
November 1, 2015 General Election Results
HDP (% 89,38), Justice and Development Party (AKP) (% 8,62), People's Republican Party (CHP) (% 0,63), Nationalist Movement Party (MHP) (% 0,55)
June 7, 2015 General Election Results
HDP (% 90,42, AKP (% 6,53), MHP (% 0.80), CHP (% 0,37) (AS/TK)
Click here to read the article in Turkish
Documentary named Cavanna, jusqu'à l'ultime seconde, j'écrirai (Cavanna, He Was Charlie) directed by Denis and Nina Robert pays homage to the hero who favored reason and logic.
Venturing
Hara Kiri magazine of which Cavanna is one of the founders is being dignified in the documentary as one of the elements preparing French youth for 68 riot.
Hara Kiri was provocatively treating many issues, which were impossible to be discussed before, in a manner destroying taboos of conservative society.
Cavanna always sustained his peace loving and antiwar stand. At times he advocated animal rights, and sometimes said no to nuclear.
The dissident spirit who always enjoyed writing was a writer that improved himself by himself. Cavanna expanding his fanbase by articles, interviews, novels, and autobiographic books other than satire, remained one of the best sellers with his plain, simple, and pellucid language.
He always attached importance to hearten his readers who identified with his farceur and pessimistic identity in no time, and that he always got angry with ones who fear facing truths. He didn’t concede his attitude that is as daredevil as kamikaze, and that he never gave up making fun of censor as well as managed to use banality and extremism as a weapon.
Freedom of expression
Cavanna and his friends’ various archive footages in the 2015-made documentary definitely lead you the past. Young Cavanna’s enthusiasm that he would preserve his entire life in the years when technological facilities are limited is worth seeing. The interviews Denis and Nina Robert made with Cavanna let us benefit the writer’s energy till his last moments.
Cavanna’s friends state that they presume Cavanna, who died a while before Charlie Hebdo attack would definitely not lose heart but continue the struggle. Cavanna states he doesn’t fear death but state of not living angers him in his final autobiographical book about the Parkinson’s disease from which he suffered as well.
Producers of the documentary don’t hold back from graphical contribution of Charlie Hebdo satire while bowing respectfully before the memory of a life devoted to expanding boundaries of freedom that government provides.
Peoples’ Democratic Party (HDP) MP from Ağrı, Leyla Zana has started oath-taking ceremony with Kurdish words. Zana saying "Bi Hevîya Aşîtî Kî Bi Rûmet Û Mayînde..." (In the Hope of an Honored and Perpetual Peace) finalized the oath afterwards in Turkish.
Zana used the expression “Nation of Turkey” instead of “Turkish nation” in the sentence “I vow on my pride and honor before grand Turkish nation” included in the oath.
President of the Assembly, Deniz Baykal objected saying the oath text wasn’t read letter-perfect. “In case the text is not duly and exactly read, the oath won’t be counted as completed”, said Baykal.
“According to our bylaws, hearers must sit in silence, and that they can’t express their ideas by words, clapping or in any other way”, warned Baykal the ones in the council chamber.
Zana's oath in 1991
Zana returned to the Assembly 20 years later, in 2011, as Peace and Democracy Party (BDP) deputy from Diyarbakır. (ÇT/TK)
The photo above belongs to Çatalağzı district of Zonguldak province. Each are operating and under construction coal-fired thermal power plants.
Life of Zonguldak where most resourceful coal-fired thermal power plants are located is based on the slogan “coal is bread”.
The city is also the place where the first coal-fired thermal power plant is built.
The first plant was built by the state (ÇATES) in Çatalağzı in 1946. The plant, which generates electricity on a small scale was shut down in 1991 when it expired. Afterwards, a new one was built by state again and now Elsan company bought it.
However, what left the city without oxygen were two thermal power plants (ZETES 1-2) of 1,390-megawatt power installed by Eren Holding in 2010. Furthermore, another plant of 1,400-megawatt power is in construction and planned to be finished by 2016.
Coal-fired thermal power plants are among the industries that cause most air pollution.
In the district, that is the most complained issue by residents. Everyone say “we can’t breathe anymore”. They beef about not being able to grow fruits and vegetables. They say they can’t open the doors, and balcony stones turn black in a day.
Greenpeace’s research is of the conviction that the plants in Zonguldak cause premature death and diseases such as undeveloped lung, asthma, KOAH are seen in one fifth of births.
Increase in cancer has been seen in the city. However, in the ÇED report of the third santral, smoking is shown as the reason of this increase by plant owners.
“The plants draw 3,000,000 cubic meters of water from sea a day. They pollute and return it to the sea. This will reach 8,000,000 as the new plant starts-up. Besides, these waters heated in the plant increase sea temperature. It causes fish death in both ways; firstly, it kills whilst drawing water, and secondly, they die due to temperature change.
Plan to build 14 plants in Black Sea
Unfortunately, thermal power plant nightmare is not limited to Zonguldak. 14 plants are planned to be built on coastline of 78 kilometers from Ereğli to Amasra.
Another important impact of the coal-fired thermal power plants which are not mentioned widespread by locals is their contribution to climate change.
More than 70 coal-fired thermal power plants of 66.5 GW of power are planned to be built in addition to 24 available ones, and three others under construction at the moment.
Turkey ranks 4th in construction of new coal-fired plants after China, India, and Russia. (NV/TK)
Fans protested a moment of silence for Paris massacre prior to friendly game between Turkey and Greece played at Başakşehir Fatih Terim Stadium in İstanbul.
Before the moment of silence, the fans shouting slogan “Martyrs are immortal our land is indivisible”, whistled to the silence too.
They shouted slogan “Ya Allah bismillah Allahüekber” after the moment of silence.
Whistle to Greek national anthem
Before the game which Greek Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras and Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoğlu watch together, some fans booed and whistled during the Greek national anthem.
Some players and technical committee reacted against the fans who booed the anthem.
Terim: Can't we remain patient for a minute?
According to the news in Hürriyet daily, national football team coach Fatih Terim briefly said as follows:
“Don’t treat others as you don’t want to be treated.
“Please, this is a national anthem…What is happening to us? Whistles rise as Greek national anthem plays. Thanks to god we could quiet it with our gestures.
“Today is also World Neighbors’ Day, and we played with our neighbor Greece. Neighborliness is important for us.
“We keep minute of silence for those who died in Paris [massacre], can’t we remain patient for a minute?
“We can’t explain this when w ego abroad. Why should our country be looked with an evil eye because of a couple of whistles”.
Englanders sang national anthem of France
Before the friendly game played between England and France at Wembley stadium in London, national anthem of France, La Marseillaise was sung together by Englander and French fans.
There was not a sound to be heard during the moment of silence for 129 people who lost their lives in Paris massacre.
According to BBC Türkçe (Turkish), lyrics of French national anthem was projected on giant screens.
Prime Minister of England, David Cameron also watched the game at Wembley stadium where large scale of security measures were taken.
During the national anthem which all fans unfurled flags of France, stadium lights took the colors of flag of France; blue, red, and White.
The same had happened in Konya
Similar incidents occurred before the game played between Turkey and Iceland on October 13 in Konya.
We as bianet have spoken with Diyarbakır Bar President Tahir Elçi as to images of special operations police firing the gun into the air and writings they did on the walls.
Elçi expressing these displays remind of 1990s stated that special operations police used to be close to nationalistic ideology, but today radical religous-nationalistic perspective ie hegemonic.
CLICK - CONFLICT IN TURKEY'S SOUTHEAST: WHAT HAPPENED IN SİLVAN OVER 10 DAYS?
"A more dangerous tendency than the one in 90s"
"In the 1990s, special operation team was mostly under influence of the MHP (Nationalist Movement Party) and its nationalistic ideology. In those times too slogans that insult Kurdish identiy were being chanted as 'down with human rights'.
"In this period, the same special operation team is under the hegemony of religious-nationalistic ideology and we see a much more dangerous tendency is being developed".
"Fight against violence conducted by laws"
"There is a serious threat because there is a perspective which truly sees Kurdish society as enemy, knows no limits, feels obligated to no law, approach the matter only on shooting and killing.
"Even though you are special team,or you are fighting with violence, armed-activity, and battle armed militants, you must still act within the boundaries of law and legality".
"People see it as occupation force"
"While we talk about a danger that peoples in Turkey may confront each other, thanks to god that neither Kurdish nor Turkish society has such a tendency.
"However, this religious radicalism that integrates with ever-increasing nationalism in these security forces head to a very dangerous point.
"On the other hand, Kurdish society sees the security forces as occupation forces that try to kill them".
"Meaning of firing by saying allahuakbar..."
"What could be the meaning of firing the gun into the air by saying allahuakbar for Kurdish society that is deeply committed to religious values.
"We are facing a structure that gradually alienates from the society and sees the society as a threat. State-society relation is gradually falling apart.
"Esedullah team acts in jihadist understanding"
